The Israeli Air Force launches an attack against tunnels leading from Gaza into Israel in response to missile attacks and mortar fire.
Atheist Ireland purposefully publishes the words of Jesus Christ, Muhammad, Salman Rushdie, Mark Twain and Pope Benedict XVI on its website despite a new law banning them on grounds of blasphemy.
Egyptian archaeologists discover the largest tomb yet discovered in the ancient Saqqara necropolis.
A diesel fuel leak in Shaanxi, China reaches the Yellow River, a water source for millions of people.
Slovakia admits responsibility for a major bomb alert on Dorset Street in Dublin, Ireland, after planting explosives on a civilian as a test.
A weekend killing in Australia has prompted the Indian government to issue an advisory for its college students studying in that country.
Sékouba Konaté, the interim head of the junta in Guinea, is flown to Senegal after falling ill.
South African President Jacob Zuma urges party unity and warns economic recovery will be slow at a gathering celebrating the 98th anniversary of the African National Congress.
The Confederation of African Football announces that football matches will continue to be played in Cabinda Province where the attack took place.
Wolfgang Wodarg, the Council of Europe's head of health affairs, claims that the 2009 flu pandemic was a "false pandemic" orchestrated by the pharmaceutical industry to sell vaccines.
Thousands of supporters of former Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra gather outside the home of a royal adviser accused of involvement in the 2006 coup that ousted the Prime Minister.
Tombs discovered near Egypt's pyramids reinforce the theory they were built by free workers rather than slaves.
Australia experiences its hottest night since 1902, as a heat wave grips the country.
Turkish police arrest at least 14 military officers, including four generals, accused of a 2003 coup plot.
Al-Qaeda's top leader in Afghanistan, and Osama bin Laden's third in command, Mustafa Abu al-Yazid, is reported killed.
Poland publishes the transcript of flight data recorders from the fatal 2010 Polish Air Force Tu-154 crash which killed 96 officials and intellectuals on 10 April.
America's Obama administration warns that BP's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico could continue until August.
Three Namibian women sue the state after they are sterilised without their informed consent after being diagnosed as HIV positive.
Two North Koreans are jailed in South Korea over an assassination plot on a high-ranking North Korean defector, Hwang Jang-yop.
An estimated 52,000 people took part in anti-government protests in the former British colony of Hong Kong.
The Parliament of Finland approves the construction of two nuclear power stations.
Fossils discovered at the Franceville site in Gabon are claimed to be evidence that multicellular life on Earth began at least 1.5 billion years earlier than currently reckoned.
Astronomers confirm the first-ever direct picture of an extrasolar planet orbiting its star.
Politicians in Nepal fail to elect a new Prime Minister for the third time after no candidate secured a majority.
A Greek truck drivers strike ends with the situation expected to get back to normal quickly.
President of Mexico Felipe Calderón calls for a debate on the legalization of drugs.
Elena Kagan is sworn in as the fourth woman to sit on the Supreme Court of the United States.
Wendy Chapman, the doctor at the centre of the Bloodgate rugby union scandal, is summoned to a disciplinary hearing on 23 August.
Turkey sets up a commission of Turkish officials and bureaucrats to investigate May's Gaza flotilla raid.
President of the United States Barack Obama signs a bill increasing security along his country's border with Mexico.
The Independent Democrats and Democratic Alliance opposition parties in South Africa agree to merge against the ruling African National Congress.
Mexico City legalises the fining of shops which give away free plastic bags in an environmental initiative.
Former Australian swimmer Dawn Fraser is criticised for controversial remarks during which she called for the boycott of the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi.
Carworkers in South Africa end their eight-day strike with a 10% pay deal.
More than half of politicians in Benin call for impeachment proceedings against President Boni Yayi over his involvement in a Ponzi scheme.
Hurricane Danielle strengthens to Category 4, becoming the first major hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
A trade agreement between Australia and the European Union comes into effect stopping Australian wine being marketed using terms such as champagne and port.
Mozambique announces it will reverse a rise in the price of bread that led to riots last week.
Japan detains a Chinese fishing boat found near the disputed Pinnacle Islands in the East China Sea.
The United States and Australia issue travel warnings for India following the shooting of two Taiwanese tourists outside the Jama Masjid mosque in Delhi.
Jupiter becomes the brightest object in the night sky after the Moon as it makes its closest approach to Earth since 1963.
Italian authorities seize 23 million euro (approximately US$30 million) from a Vatican bank account in a money laundering probe.
The Commonwealth Games Federation demands that India improve conditions at the athletes' village in Delhi.
The Minnesota Twins win the American League Central in Major League Baseball and become the first team to qualify for postseason play in 2010.
The Beano is to feature a President of the United States for the first time in its history.
Gun battle between security forces and Taliban fighters leave four militants including their commander dead in Wardak province 40 km west of Afghanistan capital Kabul.
A suspected U.S. drone fired missiles at a house in northwestern Pakistan in Khushali, a village near Mir Ali, killing four people.
Los Angeles experiences all-time record high temperature day at 45°C or 113F.
6 sailors taken hostage off the coast of Cameroon on September 12 by the Africa Marine Commando are released.
Researchers identify a new, though threatened, language known as Koro.
Greenpeace sends Facebook a letter containing half a million signatures asking the company to cut its ties to coal based electricity.
A prolonged drought in the Amazon region forces Brazil to declare a state of emergency in 25 towns.
Canada declares BPA toxic, prompting curbs or bans on the widely used chemical.
The death toll from Typhoon Megi in the Philippines rises to three as heavy rain falls on the island of Luzon for a second consecutive day.
Jewish settlers have started building more than 600 homes in the West Bank since a building freeze expired last month.
A magnitude 7.5 earthquake strikes near the Mentawai Islands, but tsunami warnings for western Sumatra proved unwarranted. ,
The Emperor of Exmoor, a red deer believed to be Britain's largest wild animal, is shot and killed.
A suicide bomber wearing an explosives belt kills at least 21 people, mostly Shiites, in Balad Ruz, the town north of Baghdad.
A large oil field is discovered off the coast of Brazil that could contain between 8 and 15 billion barrels.
Three time surfing world champion Andy Irons dies from suspected dengue fever, one of five people on the ASP World Tour to suffer from the illness in the past three weeks.
The United States Border Patrol finds a sophisticated tunnel between Tijuana in Mexico and Otay Mesa, California, used by drug smugglers.
Facebook inadvertently disabled some users' accounts when a system designed to detect fake accounts malfunctioned.
A study published by The Lancet medical journal describes how short blasts of radio waves to the kidney may help regulate blood pressure.
US health insurers gave over $86.2million to the Chamber of Commerce last year for the purpose of opposing the health-care overhaul.
A new species of ancient crocodile, Khoratosuchus jintasakuli, is identified from a fossil in Thailand.
A World Health Organization study estimates that 600,000 deaths a year are attributable to second hand smoking.
Côte d'Ivoire President Laurent Gbagbo declares a curfew, amid clashes that killed three people ahead of the second round of the presidential election on Sunday.
Ireland is hit by snow and record low November temperatures that disrupt the nation.
Dozens of Easter Islanders are injured in conflict over ownership as riot police evict islanders from their ancestral home.
Association football team FC Barcelona ends its 111-year history of refusing commercial shirt sponsorship as it signs a record £125 million deal with the Qatar Foundation.
Oklahoma becomes the first U.S. state to carry out an execution with pentobarbital, a lethal injection drug used for euthanizing animals.
The United Kingdom government announces plans to make prisoners serving less than four years eligible to vote.
1,200 new species and varieties of sea creatures discovered during the first world survey of marine life are presented at a conference in Jerusalem, Israel.
Four people are killed and around 40 injured after a passenger plane explodes in Surgut in eastern Russia.
In another event not far way from the bird dieoff, scientists are investigating a fish kill of nearly 100,000 drum in the Arkansas River.
A Tunisian protester who set himself alight in unrest that sparked further protests across the country dies of his injuries.
Mohamed bin Hammam announce that Australia will host the 2015 AFC Asian Cup; this will be the first time Australia has hosted the competition.
The Algerian government cuts food prices amid unrest, and vows to punish those responsible for rioting in recent days.
Lionel Messi of Argentina wins the FIFA Ballon d'Or as world football player for the second successive year.
The Jamaican Coast Guard intercepts a Honduran vessel fishing near Pedro Cays, killing the captain and wounding two crewmen.
The World Health Organization launches a plan to prevent the global spread of an artemisinin-resistant malaria.
Researchers discover prions spreading through airborne transmission on aerosol particles, in an animal testing experiment focusing on scrapie infection in laboratory mice.
Rescue work is carried out to attempt to locate survivors in remote areas of south-eastern Brazil.
Delta Air Lines says that it expects sharp fuel cost increases in 2011, perhaps to $2.60 a gallon from $2.47 last year.
American Samoa bans smoking in all public and private enclosed spaces.
An Australian internal review finds that the fatal Christmas Island boat disaster was responded to appropriately.
The BBC World Service is to close five of its language services with the loss of 650 jobs.
Sky Sports presenter Richard Keys resigns following his comments about female referee Sian Massey.
Ireland upgrades its relations with Palestine to a diplomatic mission, short of recognition, though the Palestinian representative is now officially an ambassador.
It emerges that police locked international ticket-holders out of Khalifa Stadium in Qatar ahead of the final of the 2011 Asian Cup between Australia and Japan.
Researchers report that fishing rates in the Arctic are 75 times higher than those reported by the U.N., suggesting future increased exploitation is less possible than previously thought.
Police on Easter Island evict indigenous protesters battling for ancestral lands and a larger share of tourist revenues from the grounds of a luxury hotel.
Using Google Maps, an archaeologist finds nearly 2,000 potential archaeological sites in Saudi Arabia.
Human Rights Watch claims that government-controlled health services in Egypt have been 'told to downplay protest deaths'.
George Osborne, the United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer, announces that the tax on bank profits will become permanent.
Two small planes (took off from Langley Regional Airport) collide mid-air near Mission, British Columbia, in western Canada, with at least one person dead.
South Korea agrees in principle to resume discussions with North Korea on humanitarian issues including reuniting families separated by the Korean War.
Ahmadinejad said that the new Middle East will be formed soon where there will be no room for the United States and Israel.
The inquiry into the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico is released finding that the accident was entirely preventable.
Oil prices reach a two-year high due to uncertainty in the Middle East most notably in Libya.
Clashes take place at a demonstration calling for the resignation of former members of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali's regime in the interim government.
Demonstrations calling for economic and political change continue for a third day, amid reports of looting.
Jared Lee Loughner has been indicted on 49 counts in relation to the 2011 Tucson shooting in the US state of Arizona.
The United States Department of State warns U.S. citizens of a high security threat level in Yemen due to what it describes as "terrorist activities and civil unrest". ,
The United States Food and Drug Administration approves the use of the drug Belimumab (Benlysta) to treat lupus, the first drug to be approved for this purpose in 56 years.
The Bank of Korea increases the main interest rate in South Korea by a quarter percentage point to 3% due to concerns over inflation.
The New York Times newspaper announces it is to start charging people who access content on its website.
Vitali Klitschko defeats Odlanier Solís via a controversial first-round technical knockout to retain the WBC Heavyweight Championship in Cologne, Germany.
A US judge blocks an agreement between Google and publishers about efforts to digitize books online at Google Books.
Tokyo Electric Power Co. resumes its policy of rolling electricity blackouts following ongoing problems caused by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.
Mathematician John Milnor wins the 2011 Abel Prize for his contributions to topology, geometry and algebra.
Microsoft lodged an antitrust complaint against Google with the European Commission.
The US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reports that the number of traffic deaths has fallen to 32,788 in 2010, the lowest level since 1949.
Almost half of China's dairies are to close after failing to obtain new licenses following a safety audit.
The World Meteorological Organisation reports that the ozone layer is damaged to its worst extent ever in the Arctic.
Basketball star LeBron James buys a minority interest in Premier League team Liverpool Football Club.
The Assad regime grants nationality to thousands of Kurds in al-Hasaka in a bid to appease protesters.
Leaders of Canada's major political parties hold an English language debate for the Canadian federal election.
The United States requests the release of one of its citizens detained in North Korea.
Fourteen people claimed to be responsible for shooting 52 protestors in Sana’a in March are referred to the state prosecutor.
British prime minister David Cameron sets out to block his predecessor Gordon Brown's attempt to take the £270,000 per year role of head of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
New Jersey's Secretary of State rejects former Olympic medallist Carl Lewis's bid to run for the state Senate due to eligibility requirements.
The Vatican brings Pope John Paul II's coffin out from below St. Peter's Basilica in Rome in preparation for his beatification.
Gaddafi has supplied Viagra to his forces to encourage them to commit mass rape, Susan Rice, United States Ambassador to the United Nations, has alleged.
American basketball player Derrick Rose of the Chicago Bulls wins the NBA Most Valuable Player Award Award for the 2010-11 NBA season, the youngest player to do so.
Workers enter one of the buildings at Japan's Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant for the first time since an explosion in the days following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.
Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Tavish Scott resigns after a collapse of his party's support at the Scottish Parliament election.
There is a near riot in the Beijing Apple Store as the Apple iPad 2 goes on sale in the People's Republic of China.
Floods in Mississippi worsen, with the Army Corps of Engineers saying an area between Simmesport, Louisiana and Baton Rouge may be inundated under 20-30 feet of water.
Former Football Association chairman David Triesman alleges that four members of FIFA sought "bribes" in return for backing England's failed bid to host the 2018 World Cup.
Police in South London launch a murder hunt after a 15-year-old schoolboy is stabbed to death in the street.
North Korean leader Kim Jong-il's youngest son Kim Jong-un reportedly lifts restrictions on women's fashion, while cosmetic surgery–though illegal–takes place in return for bribes.
President of the United States Barack Obama uses his weekly address to vow to seek oil in Alaska and in the Gulf of Mexico.
The Morganza Spillway on the Mississippi River has been opened for the first time in 37 years, deliberately flooding 3,000 square miles of rural Louisiana to save most of Baton Rouge and New Orleans.
Protesting indigenous people take over half of the city of Puno in south-eastern Peru, demanding an end to a Canadian mining project.
Iran denies a plane carrying the Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel access to its airspace for two hours en route to India.
The Dallas Mavericks beat the Miami Heat 95-93 in the second game of the 2011 NBA Finals to tie the series.
Cheaper new meningitis vaccinations reduce cases in Africa, with Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger recording the lowest number of cases.
Ash clouds from the erupting Puyehue-Cordon Caulle in Chile disrupt and cancel international flights, leaving thousands stranded.
A series of moderate magnitude 4-5 earthquakes hit eastern Eritrea, preceding reports of a possible volcanic eruption.
Liberia suspends diplomatic ties with Libya, after United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called on countries to sever ties with Libya.
Some Saudi Arabian women challenge a ban on female drivers, posting accounts and pictures of themselves driving automobiles.
The International Monetary Fund calls on eurozone countries to provide more money for Greece and to stop what the IMF regards as "unproductive" arguments about burning bondholders.
A Syrian military spokesman says more than 400 members of security forces have been killed in the months-long unrest as videos surface allegedly showing children killed in the violence.
Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu says that Israel is "fully entitled to work against" attempts by the Gaza-bound "provocation flotilla" to smuggle arms into the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip.
The Chosunilbo newspaper in South Korea reports that Kim Pyong-il, the half-brother of current North Korean leader Kim Jong-il, is under house arrest in Pyongyang.
Northern Province of Sri Lanka, severely affected by the civil war, is opened to foreigners and journalists who hold passports.
Christine Lagarde officially starts as managing director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The Space Shuttle Atlantis lifts off for the final mission of the US Space Shuttle program.
Two studies show that antiretroviral drugs taken to treat AIDS can also be used to prevent infection with HIV.
Former News International Chief Executive Rebekah Brooks is arrested by police investigating phone hacking and corruption at the organisation.
The Japan women's national football team returns home to be greeted by thousands of fans after winning the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup.
Nepalese officials say monsoon rains have swollen two major rivers in the country and have increased the threat of widespread flooding.
A tropical storm watch is issued for Tropical Storm Don in the US state of Texas between Port Mansfield north to San Luis Pass. ,
At least 57 people are dead and 12 are confirmed missing in the Seoul and Siheung region of South Korea due to landslides caused by heavy rain.
The United States Senate passes legislation to raise the debt ceiling in order to avert the 2011 US debt ceiling crisis and President Barack Obama signs it into law.
Sky News reports new evidence that North Korean officials have been involved in the illegal drugs trade.
In American football, players in the US National Football League ratify a new collective bargaining agreement including provisions for tests for human growth hormone.
The Cambridgeshire Guided Busway, the longest guided busway in the world, opens after years of delays.
Former Brazilian football star Zico signs a contract to manage the Iraq national football team.
An Egyptian protester removes the flag from the Israeli embassy as thousands protest outside following the death of five policemen near the border.
In athletics, Lamine Diack of Senegal is elected unopposed to another term as President of the International Association of Athletics Federations.
The RAF gives the Red Arrows clearance to fly again following Saturday's fatal crash at the Bournemouth Air Festival, but cannot confirm if they will fly at similar events this year.
Dozens of dead bodies are found at the Abu Salim Hospital in Tripoli which had been abandoned by medical staff earlier in the week when it came under heavy gunfire.
At least four people, including a high-ranking security service officer, are killed in a series of bombings and shootings across Russia's North Caucasus.
Four bodies are recovered from the ocean after an airplane of the Chilean Air Force crashed near Robinson Crusoe Island on Friday.
The Swiss National Bank introduces a minimum exchange rate of 1.20 CHF/EUR to prevent the overvaluation of the Swiss franc.
Over 5,000 people have reportedly been infected by an outbreak of dengue fever in Pakistan.
Robert Zoellick, the President of the World Bank, claims that the world economy has entered the "danger zone", with the United States, European Union and Japan having to make tough decisions.
Tanzanian authorities charge four people with negligence in relation to the Zanzibar ferry sinking that cost at least 240 lives on September 10.
Voters in the German capital of Berlin go to the polls for a state election, with current mayor Klaus Wowereit and his Social Democrats doing well.
The Anniston Chemical Activity destroys its last mustard gas shells, becoming the fifth of nine US chemical weapons depots to close under terms of the Chemical Weapons Treaty.
Former television journalist Shelly Yachimovich is elected as the head of the Israeli Labor Party.
Oswald Grübel, chief executive of Swiss bank UBS, resigns in the wake of a rogue trading scandal.
A US court sentences two more Somali pirates to life in prison for capturing a yacht off the coast of Africa in February.
At least 25 people are killed and many more injured after protesters and security forces clash in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, during a protest in response to an attack on a Coptic church.
A measure to support expansion of the eurozone bailout fund is halted due to its failure to pass in the Parliament of Slovakia.
The Netherlands becomes the first European country to win a professional world baseball championship since 1938, after defeating Cuba 2-1 in the 2011 Baseball World Cup final in Panama City, Panama.
Egypt's ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces announces a law banning all forms of discrimination, in the wake of recent violence between Coptic protesters and security forces.
Year-over-year GDP growth in the People's Republic of China slows to 9.1% for the third quarter of 2011, following government efforts to curb inflation.
North Korea agrees, for the first time in 6 years, to let the United States search for the remains of American soldiers killed during the Korean War.
24-year-old Italian motorcycle racer Marco Simoncelli dies after crashing and being hit by two other riders at the Malaysian MotoGP, leading to the cancellation of the race. ,
The corpses of 53 pro-Muammar Gaddafi fighters are found in Sirte, all having apparently been summarily executed by NTC troops.
Hurricane Rina strengthens to Category 2 strength as it advances towards Cancun and other resorts on the Mexican Riviera.
In California, Oakland police disperse Occupy Oakland protesters, using tear gas and rubber bullets and making numerous arrests.
Iranian actress Marzieh Vafamehr is released from jail after her sentence for acting in the banned film My Tehran for Sale is reduced.
A rogue member of the Afghan National Army opens fire on Australian Army soldiers in Kandahar Province killing three and an Afghan interpreter.
The Australian airline Qantas grounds its entire fleet due to an ongoing industrial dispute with a lockout to start on Monday.
Almazbek Atambayev, the newly elected President of Kyrgyzstan, states that a lease for a United States air base in Manas will not be renewed when it expires in 2014.
The Islamist terrorist group Boko Haram claims responsibility for a series of bomb and gun attacks in the north-eastern Nigerian town of Damaturu that have killed at least 63 people.
Flooding in Thailand reaches the residence of the Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra in Bangkok, forcing her to withdraw from the Hawaii APEC summit to deal with the crisis.
A Scottish-designed bionic leg exoskeleton, designed to allow handicapped people to walk, is approved for sale in the United Kingdom.
London in the United Kingdom wins the rights to host the 2017 World Athletics Championships ahead of Doha, Qatar.
In Major League Baseball, the Florida Marlins officially change their name to the Miami Marlins.
Former South African rugby union player Solly Tyibilika is shot dead in a bar in Cape Town.
Uzbek midfielder Server Djeparov is named Asian Footballer of the Year for the second time, in a ceremony held at the Asian Football Confederation headquarters.
India's government decides to relax rules concerning the operation of foreign-owned retailers such as Wal-Mart and Tesco within India.
NBA team owners and players reach an agreement to end the 149-day NBA lockout and to begin the current NBA season on Christmas Day.
David Cameron, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, refuses to join a European Union financial crisis accord after negotiations in Brussels.
The United States Senate votes in favor of extending the payroll tax cut for two months.
The Arab League threatens to take Syria to the United Nations within two weeks if the country does not accept its proposals to end the crackdown on the uprising.
The Buddha Memorial Center of Fo Guang Shan in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, housing a tooth relic of Gautama Buddha, is consecrated.
The Washington-based organisation Human Rights Watch accuses Syria of hiding hundreds of political detainees during a visit by Arab League monitors.
At least two people are killed in attacks on bars in northern Kenya near the border with Somalia, with Islamist al-Shabaab militants possibly responsible.
Up to 50,000 people flee their homes in a border area of South Sudan amid ethnic violence.
Armed commandos will be ordered to protect endangered tigers in India's Bandipur and Nagarhole national parks.
Alabama defeats LSU 21-0 to win the 2012 BCS National Championship, their second championship in three years, in the first shutout in BCS bowl history.
The English Wikipedia will be shut down on Wednesday in protest against anti-piracy legislation proposed by the United States Congress.
Twitter alters technology to enable country-specific censorship of messages.
Archbishop of York Dr. John Sentamu calls on the Church of England not to permit same-sex marriage.
The People's Republic of China asks for assistance from South Sudan to obtain the release of 29 Chinese workers held captive in Sudan for five days.
The Daily Mail reports that the world record for the number of water skiers pulled by a single boat (145) has been broken.
A Libyan starts court proceedings against 41 people accused of helping Muammar Gaddafi to attempt to suppress the opposition in the Libyan Civil War.
The United States Congress votes to pass legislation allowing for greater use of drone aircraft in the United States.
Azerbaijan rejects a claim by Iran that it has been helping Israeli spies in the killing of an Iranian nuclear scientist.
The President of Honduras Porfirio Lobo pledges a "full and transparent inquiry" into the events and suspends local and national prison officials.
United States Capitol Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested Amine El Khalifi, a man from Morocco who allegedly planned a suicide attack on the United States Capitol.
A fight amongst inmates leads to a prison riot in the Mexican city of Apodaca, Nuevo León, with 44 people dead.
Treasure from the Spanish Navy frigate Nuestra Señora de las Mercedes returns to Spain after being recovered by Odyssey Marine Exploration in 2007.
Meta-analysis of 42 previous studies concludes chocolate may be good for the heart.
The United States files an application in New Zealand to extradite Kim Dotcom and three of his associates in MegaUpload to face charges of breaching copyright.
A study finds a correlation between snoring as a toddler and behavior problems later in childhood.
Turkish Airlines begins a service to Somalia, the first regular service to the capital Mogadishu except regional East African flights to operate in twenty years.
A gunman kills one person and injures seven others before himself being shot dead at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center's Western Psychiatric Institute & Clinic in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Chinese politician Bo Xilai speaks out for the first time since his aide attempted to defect at the American consulate.
India's Kingfisher Airlines cancels at least 40 flights due to pilots not turning up for work due to unpaid salaries.
Pakistani villagers find 13 bodies with bullet wounds in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas near Afghanistan as security forces step up an offensive.
Rebelling government troops in Mali storm the state broadcaster in the capital Bamako.
Iraq is terrorised by unconfirmed reports of extremists crushing the skulls of emos with blocks of cement.
The Los Angeles County Coroner's Office says that Whitney Houston's official cause of death was drowning as a result of cocaine use.
Nine top officials are jailed for their role in the near-bankruptcy of one of Vietnam's largest state-owned companies.
Turkish prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan accuses the United Nations Security Council of standing by with its "hands and arms tied" while the Syrian people are killed every day.
University of Arkansas head football coach Bobby Petrino is fired because of misconduct involving an inappropriate relationship with a female employee.
Vessels from the Philippine Navy and Chinese maritime surveillance are at a standoff after the Philippines attempted to arrest Chinese fishermen in the South China Sea.
Former Malian President Amadou Toumani Toure arrives in Senegal after being ousted in a military coup.
Police fire tear gas at demonstrators outside the capital Manama ahead of the Grand Prix.
In response to an outbreak of an unidentified fatal disease in Quang Ngai province, Vietnam, the Vietnamese government asks for help from the World Health Organization.
A 30-year-old woman collapses and dies while running in the London Marathon.
Burma's parliament opens without the party of Aung San Suu Kyi who boycotted the legislature over a disagreement on the wording of the oath of office.
South Korean retailers cease selling beef from the United States after a case of mad cow disease is reported.
Malaysian police use tear gas and water cannon to disperse thousands of protesters gathered in Kuala Lumpur calling for free and fair elections.
The as of yet unfinished One World Trade Center becomes the tallest building in New York City, overtaking the Empire State Building.
Tens of thousands of people march in Asia, Europe and North America, protesting against job cuts, inequality, and austerity measures.
United States President Barack Obama officially states that he supports the right for same-sex partners to marry.
Atlético Madrid defeat Athletic Bilbao in the 2012 UEFA Europa League Final in Bucharest to win the competition for the second time in three years.
Chinese tour companies suspend tourist flights to the Philippines amid rising tensions between the two countries over territorial disputes in the South China Sea.
A man sets himself on fire outside the Oslo courthouse where mass murderer Anders Behring Breivik is on trial for the 2011 Norway attacks.
China Central Television Headquarters in Beijing is completed, a decade after its design by OMA.
Taoiseach Enda Kenny makes a televised address on the European Fiscal Compact ahead of Thursday's referendum.
The mother of Assange arrives in London ahead of his final legal bid against extradition to Sweden.
Viswanathan Anand defeats Boris Gelfand to win the World Chess Championship for the fourth consecutive time, and the fifth time overall.
A plane carrying 153 people on board crashes in a residential neighborhood in Lagos, Nigeria, killing everyone on board and 10 people on the ground.
Controversy is stoked after a video emerges of a U.S. religious minister outlining his plan to imprison the country's gay and lesbian population behind an electric fence until they die.
The Solar Impulse, a solar plane, lands in Morocco, completing the world's first intercontinental flight powered by the Sun.
U.S. Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta makes an unannounced trip to Kabul and warns that his country is "reaching the limits of our patience here" with regard to Pakistan.
Dangote Cement opens a new line of production at its Obajana facility in the Kogi State, making the plant the largest in Sub-Sahara Africa and one of the largest in the world.
A day after the arrest of opposition politicians, a mass anti-Putin protest takes place in central Moscow.
The World Health Organization (WHO) concludes that diesel exhaust causes cancer.
Scientists announce creation of a new chemical compound, NOTT-202, capable of selectively absorbing carbon dioxide.
Czech Republic goalkeeper Petr Čech drops a clanger in his country's game against 2004 champions Greece in a match that had the fewest shots in the European Championship since 1980.
Bulgarian remains believed by some to be John The Baptist are scientifically dated to the first century AD.
In Afghanistan, Taliban soldiers invade a hotel in Kabul, kill guests, and hold some hostages.
The Syrian military shoots down a Turkish F-4 Phantom fighter jet after it had entered Syrian airpsace over the Mediterranean Sea.
A United States judge dismisses an injunction from Apple Inc. against Motorola for patent infringement.
Canadian-American game show personality Alex Trebek suffers a mild heart attack, but is expected to "fully recover".
The University of Virginia reinstates President Teresa Sullivan after she was ousted without a formal vote earlier this month.
Former Pennsylvania State Representative Stephen Stetler is convicted of all six counts in his corruption case.
Colombia evacuates towns near the Nevado del Ruiz volcano over concerns about a possible eruption.
GlaxoSmithKline settles the largest healthcare fraud case in US history for $3 billion dollars.
Syrian President Bashar al Assad accuses neighboring Turkey of supporting "terrorists" and contributing to the bloodshed in Syria.
Cambodian health officials identify Enterovirus 71 as a possible cause for an outbreak in which at least 64 children have died.
South Africa cricket player Mark Boucher ends his career after sustaining an eye injury during the tour of England.
Italian and French rescue crews recover the bodies of two climbers on Mont Blanc in the Alps, two days following an avalanche that swept away nine climbers.
A surfer is killed by a shark off near Wedge Island, about 160km (100 miles) north of Perth in Australia.
The African Union choose Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma of South Africa as its leader, making her the first woman to occupy the post, in a hard fought battle with incumbent Jean Ping of Gabon.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approves Truvada as the first drug shown to reduce the risk of HIV infection.
Bradley Wiggins becomes the first British cyclist to win the Tour de France after coming first in this year's race.
The UK's Manchester Airport launches an inquiry after an 11-year-old boy boarded a plane to Rome unaccompanied, and without passport, tickets or boarding pass.
Mali's interim President Diouncounda Traore returns to the country after a two-month absence.
The opening ceremony for the 2012 Summer Olympics takes place at the London Olympic Stadium with Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom declaring the Games open. ,
The sudden death of writer Maeve Binchy, who sold more than 40 million books worldwide, is announced on Irish television by Vincent Browne.
Advertiser accuses Facebook of fraud after discovering that 80% of the clicks they're paying for are from bots, and not actual potential customers.
In athletics, Oscar Pistorius of South Africa becomes the first amputee to compete at the Olympic Games in the 400 meters.
NASA's Mars Science Laboratory Curiosity rover lands safely on the surface of Mars.
A welding fire breaks out but is soon extinguished, with no injuries, on the 88th floor of One World Trade Center in New York City.
German footballer Robert Huth is hospitalised with suspected meningitis.
Qatar is to deposit US$2bn at the Egyptian Central Bank in an effort to help support an economy battered by a year and a half of political turmoil, an Egyptian presidency statement reports.
In Somalia, a new parliament is formed, with the new task of electing the country's president.
At least 20 people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo die from the Ebola virus disease.
A South Korean court rules that Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics infringed each other's patents on mobile computing technology.
An outbreak of Legionellosis (Legionnaires' disease) in Quebec City, Canada, kills 8 people and infects 104.
Leslie Buckley, a close associate of Denis O'Brien, is elected chairman of Independent News & Media.
The Prime Minister of Pakistan Raja Pervez Ashraf appears in the Pakistani Supreme Court over his failure to reopen investigations of corruption against President Asif Ali Zardari.
The banana spider venom is found by Brazilian researchers in some cases to relieve erectile dysfunctions in less than 20 minutes.
The Belgian Army assigns 16 sapping instructors to a train-the-trainer program in Katanga, DR Congo, from Saturday until year's end.
The ruling People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola wins the Angolan general election with a preliminary 74.46% of the vote.
Lebanon bans smoking in closed public places like restaurants and cafés.
The Hong Kong government backs down on plans to introduce Chinese patriotism classes in its schools after weeks of protests.
Mexican police officers discover 16 corpses with signs of torture inside a vehicle in the southern state of Guerrero.
At least 21 passengers on board an Indonesian ferry that sank last night on the Mahakam River in East Kalimantan are missing and presumed dead.
Four people are injured and 85,000 households lose power as Sanba moves across Okinawa and Kagoshima Prefectures.
Mei Xiang, the Washington, D.C. National Zoo's adult female giant panda, gives birth to a cub, her second there, via artificial insemination.
The National Hockey League locks out its players after the expiry of the collective bargaining agreement.
A three-man crew lands safely after four months in the International Space Station.
People in over 180 cities of China attend protests sparked by Japan's nationalization of the Senkaku Islands and the 81st anniversary of the Mukden Incident.
The Czech Republic temporarily imposes a ban on hard liquor after a spate of deaths related to bootleg hard alcohol poisoning.
Edwin P. Wilson, a former Central Intelligence Agency operative and arms trafficker, has died on September 10th.
Police in Italy arrest a man at Turin Caselle Airport on charges of impersonating a pilot.
The World Health Organization says the novel coronavirus that originated from Saudi Arabia is not highly contagious.
Singer George Michael cancels the Australian leg of his tour due to "major anxiety", resulting from his recovery from life-threatening pneumonia last November.
At least 47 people throughout the United States are infected with fungal meningitis from contaminated medicine, with five people dying.
A court in the Vatican finds Pope Benedict XVI's former butler Paolo Gabriele guilty of theft for stealing and leaking confidential documents and sentences Gabriele to 18 months' imprisonment.
Antisa Khvichava, a woman regarded as the oldest person of all time, dies.
Serge Haroche and David Wineland win the 2012 Nobel Prize in Physics for their work on quantum optics.
The Marie Stopes organisation is to open the first private clinic to offer abortions to women in Northern Ireland from 18 October.
Seven prisoners from Amasya Prison in Turkey say that they began "indefinite and irreversible" hunger strikes on October 5, and their health is at serious risk.
Chinese author Mo Yan, famous for working in the style of writing known as hallucinatory realism, wins the Nobel Prize in Literature.
An Africa Cup of Nations qualification match between Senegal and Ivory Coast is abandoned due to rioting at the Stade Leopold Senghor in Dakar.
Senegal are disqualified from the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations after last Saturday's stadium riot in the game with Ivory Coast.
Big Tex, a 52-foot statue and cultural icon in Dallas, Texas, is destroyed by fire during the final weekend of the 2012 State Fair of Texas.
The SpaceX Dragon capsule on a re-supply mission to the International Space Station returns to Earth.
Five thousand people are evacuated from low-lying areas off the coast of Tamil Nadu state in India and two sailors die in heavy seas before Cyclone Nilam hits the coast.
Former British Labour Party minister Denis MacShane resigns his House of Commons seat after he wrongfully claimed at least £7,500 in expenses.
Bishop Tawadros is selected as the new 118th pope of the Coptic Orthodox Church.
The UK's Secretary of State for International Development Justine Greening confirms Britain will cease giving financial aid to India by 2015.
BP announces it will plead guilty to charges of manslaughter and obstruction of Congress, and will pay a total of US$4.5 billion to the US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission.
A bronze statue of Sir Alex Ferguson, a most successful manager in Manchester United’s history, was unveiled outside Old Trafford.
The music video for South Korean pop singer Psy's "Gangnam Style" surpasses 808 million views, making it the most viewed video in the history of YouTube.
The UK government is to create a new wave of universities both in the private and public sector, the first new universities in the country for two decades.
M23 rebels announce their withdrawal from territory captured from government troops after a pullout deal was reached in Uganda.
New data from the NASA space probe MESSENGER indicate that Mercury, the closest planet to the Sun, almost surely has water ice buried beneath the surface at its north pole.
NASA debunks rumors of new evidence of life on Mars, but its Curiosity rover continues to make many smaller discoveries.
NASA's twin GRAIL probes have revealed the surface of the Moon in unprecedented detail, showing unexpectedly-deep cracks, craters and tectonic structures.
The President of the Philippines Benigno Aquino declares a state of national calamity in the country following Typhoon Bopha, which has claimed over 450 lives.
Police in Vietnam break up anti-China protests over gas and oil claims in the South China Sea.
Finance Ministers from the European Union agree to giving the European Central Bank new powers to supervise euro zone banks.
An inquest into the death of nurse Jacintha Saldanha hears that she died as a result of self-inflicted hanging.
Ephraim Mirvis is announced as the next Chief Rabbi of the United Kingdom, replacing Dr. Jonathan Sacks who will step down from the role in 2013.
The New York Stock Exchange, the largest stock exchange in the United States and the world, is sold to Atlanta-based IntercontinentalExchange.
Vladimir Putin, the President of Russia, grants Russian citizenship to Gérard Depardieu who has renounced his French citizenship due to high taxes.
Police in India charge five men with the murder of a 23-year-old woman who was gang-raped on a bus in Delhi on December 16, 2012.
The Church of England drops its prohibition on gay clergy in civil partnerships becoming bishops, so long as they promise to be celibate.
Beijing's air pollution reaches levels judged as hazardous to human health.
Boeing 787 aircraft are grounded worldwide over concerns about the safety of their lithium-ion batteries.
NASA’s Curiosity rover finds calcium deposits on Mars similar to those seen on Earth when water circulates in cracks and rock fractures.
The United States Department of State issues a travel warning to United States citizens for the country of Algeria in response to the In Aménas hostage crisis.
Rescuers from New Zealand and McMurdo Station looking for three Canadians aboard an airplane presumed to have gone down in Antarctica were grappling with bad weather conditions.
A Ukrainian court sentences a former police chief Olexiy Pukach to life imprisonment for murdering journalist Georgiy Gongadze in 2000.
A.C. Milan says it has reached an agreement with Manchester City F.C. to sign Italian striker Mario Balotelli.
South Korean media reports claim that North Korea has been placed under martial law with another nuclear test considered to be imminent.
The Kremlin announces that Russia will hold the 2014 G8 summit in its southern Black Sea resort of Sochi, the host of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
Afzal Guru is hanged at Tihar Jail in New Delhi, India, for his role in the 2001 Indian Parliament attack.
Tens of millions of Hindus bathe in the Ganges River in the Indian city of Allahabad during the Maha Kumbh Mela festival.
In motorsport, Danica Patrick becomes the first woman to win pole position at the Daytona 500 and the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series.
North Korea threatens the "final destruction" of South Korea during a United Nations conference on disarmament.
The Canadian Security Intelligence Service warns of possible attacks within Canada due to the presence of Al-Qaeda affiliated groups in the country.
A new study finds that chimpanzees will solve puzzles for the fun of it.
A study concludes that continuous standing and walking reduces the risk of type II diabetes better than either sitting/lying or exercise.
Following treatment, a 2-year-old Mississippi girl born with the HIV/AIDS virus is pronounced to be HIV negative.
Eddie Maher, who spent almost 20 years as a fugitive in the United States, is jailed for five years for stealing a security van containing £1.2m in Suffolk, England.
Manchester United player Rio Ferdinand may face a disciplinary procedure after his sarcastic hand-clapping gesture before Cüneyt Çakır at the end of the game.
The United Nations Security Council approves unanimously new sanctions against North Korea for its recent nuclear test.
Six people, including multiple elected officials, are arrested on charges of fraud for allegedly attempting to rig the 2013 New York City mayoral election.
Writer Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, the only person to have won both an Academy Award and a Booker Prize, dies at the age of 85.
A new study suggests that common cholesterol reducing drugs may also prevent macular degeneration.
Pope Francis appoints a panel of nine high-ranking prelates from around the world to advise him of the running of the Catholic Church and advise him on the reform of the Vatican bureaucracy.
U.S. President Barack Obama visits the city of Boston in the wake of the recent marathon bombings.
A study finds that men who wear kilts and no underwear have higher sperm counts than men who sport underwear.
In tennis, Russia and Italy advance to the final of the 2013 Fed Cup World Group defeating Slovakia and Czech Republic respectively.
After being missing for over a week, the body of Sunil Tripathi is found in the Providence River.
Seven-time Prime Minister of Italy Giulio Andreotti dies in Rome at the age of 94 years.
Indian National Congress won legislative assembly election of Indian state Karnataka with clear majority.
Gunmen break into the home of an anti-terrorism police officer in the Baghdad suburbs, killing him and his family.
Star Trek Into Darkness earns an estimated US$70.6 million during its opening weekend in the US and Canada.
A study of more than 10,000 people finds a correlation between cesarean section birth and childhood obesity.
Thousands of people attend the beatification of Pino Puglisi, a Roman Catholic priest murdered by the Sicilian Mafia for speaking out against crime. ,
In tennis, Venus Williams loses in the first round of the French Open for the first time since 2001.
France reports its first death from the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus as Saudi Arabia advises of five new cases.
Italy announces its first case of novel coronavirus.
U.S. President Barack Obama lifts a trade embargo of communications equipment and software to non-government Iranians.
Taliban insurgents attack two checkpoints in the Kamdesh District in eastern Afghanistan killing four Afghan police officers
Wildfires in Southern California, USA, lead to hundreds of evacuations.
The Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt rules that the country's Islamist dominated Parliament and Constituent Assembly of Egypt were illegally elected.
In rugby league, the New Zealand Warriors are fined AU$15,000 for Russell Packer urinating on the field before a game.
More than 150 scientists urge the Australian Government to slow development near the Great Barrier Reef.
Researchers describe the recently rediscovered Hula painted frog, long thought to be extinct, as a "living fossil".
A second case of Legionnaires' Disease in less than a week is confirmed in Australia, leading to fears of a possible outbreak of the rare disease.
The United States and China agree to work together to reduce the use of hydrofluorocarbons which are thought to contribute significantly to global warming.
A new study suggests that altitude plays a role in language evolution, explaining why ejective sounds are more popular in languages of high-altitude regions.
Pope Francis blesses thousands of Harley Davidson motorcycle enthusiasts on the company's 110th anniversary.
The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Nečas, submits his resignation following a corruption scandal.
President of Nigeria Goodluck Jonathan announces a N3 billion fund to "intervene" in Nollywood.
Taiwan reports the first human case of the H6N1 virus.
French anti-terror police arrest six people in Paris who were said to have been planning a terrorist attack on well known figures.
The Australian Dollar falls to its lowest level against the US Dollar since 2010.
Pakistan condemns the latest deadly U.S. drone strike to violate its "sovereignty and territorial integrity".
Abu Qatada, a Palestinian Muslim cleric allegedly affiliated with al-Qaeda, is deported from the United Kingdom to Jordan to face charges of terrorism.
Prominent Russian opposition figure Alexei Navalny registers himself to stand in September's vote for Moscow mayor.
British Prime Minister David Cameron announces plans for every household in the UK to automatically have pornography blocked by their internet service provider, unless they choose otherwise.
Hercules 264, a Gulf of Mexico natural gas drilling rig, partially collapses off the coast of Louisiana after catching fire.
Wells Fargo of the United States becomes the world's largest bank by market capitalisation, replacing the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China amid an economic slowdown in China.
The Oxford English Dictionary confirms that it will change the definition of the word "marriage" to include the LGBT community.
A mass funeral is held near the southern Italian town of Pozzuoli for the 38 victims of Sunday's bus crash.
The United States closes 22 embassies in the Middle East and North Africa due to intelligence of an Al-Qaeda attack.
A gas explosion in an apartment block kills five people and injures a dozen in the Argentine city of Rosario.
A hot Air Balloon carrying an American family crashes killing one person and injures four in the Swiss town of Montbovon.
Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and Leader of the Opposition Tony Abbott participate in the first of three televised leaders debates ahead of September's federal election.
Ali Akbar Salehi, former Iranian foreign minister, is appointed as head of Atomic Energy Organization of Iran.
The UK government's independent reviewer of terrorism laws is to probe the arrest of David Miranda.
Real estate developers are reported to have severely damaged the UNESCO world heritage site of Cyrene, Libya.
The African Diaspora Maritime Corp. withdraws from the America's Cup amid controversy over being denied an opportunity to be the American defender in the competition based on ethnicity.
All 25,000 applicants to the University of Liberia fail their entrance exams.
French President François Hollande says France is "ready to punish" those responsible for the chemical attacks.
Syrians in the capital Damascus race against time to prepare for a foreign strike, with many hoarding supplies and others scrambling to find accommodation further away from potential military targets.
Scientists discover an 800km long canyon that is up to 800m deep in places beneath the ice sheet that covers Greenland.
Diana Nyad successfully completes a swim from Cuba to Florida, the first person to do so without a shark cage.
Rochus Misch, the last witness to Adolf Hitler’s suicide in the Führerbunker dies at the age of 96.
The elusive Australian Central Rock Rat, not seen since 1960, is rediscovered in Central Australia.
South Korea bans all fishery imports from eight Japanese prefectures, amid concern over leaks of radioactive water from the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant.
Results indicate that Sergei Sobyanin will be elected as Mayor of Moscow with over 50 per cent of the vote.
Mahmoud Badr, the founder of the Tamarod grassroots movement that helped spark the July 2013 Egyptian protests, reportedly survives an assassination attempt.
The Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam identifies a new Vincent Van Gogh painting, Sunset at Montmajour.
The legislature of the US state of California passes a bill banning new sales of semi-automatic rifles with removable magazines.
Nigel Evans resigns as Deputy Speaker of the British House of Commons after being charged with eight sexual offences.
The announcement, while confirmed by external research, is still met in some quarters by skepticism.
Naegleria fowleri is found in tap water near New Orleans, marking the first time the pathogenic amoeba has been detected in U.S. public water supply.
The head of a United Nations war crimes tribunal states that it is investigating 14 alleged instances of chemical weapons attacks.
The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons reports that Syria has handed over data on its chemical weapons program.
President Barack Obama reveals he talked with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, marking the first time leaders from the U.S. and Iran have directly communicated since the Iranian revolution.
In golf, Tiger Woods is named as the PGA Tour's Player of the Year for a record 11th time.
A Buddhist mob torches more than 70 Muslim homes and stabs a 94-year-old woman to death in Rakhine State, Myanmar.
The government of Venezuela expels three United States diplomats after accusing them of "economic sabotage".
Scott Carpenter, Mercury 7 astronaut and second American to orbit the earth, dies at 88 following complications from a stroke.
The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant is accused by Human Rights Watch of killing at least 190 villagers in pro-government areas and kidnapping hundreds more.
The World Health Organization reports that a polio outbreak has begun in the war-torn city of Deir Ezzor, Syria.
Tunisian government and opposition leaders are deadlocked during talks over the determination of a new PM tasked with steering the country out of a months-long political crisis.
A solar eclipse sweeps across Africa, Europe and the Eastern United States.
A 14.82-carat orange diamond sets a world record after it is sold at a Christie's auction in Geneva for $35.5 million.
NASA successfully launches its MAVEN space probe on a mission to study Mars' atmosphere.
Indonesian protesters gather outside the Australian embassy in Jakarta and protesters burn Australian flags to protest alleged bugging of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's phone.
Vietnam passes a new Constitution that reaffirms the dominant position of the Communist Party.
LAM Mozambique Airlines Flight 470 carrying 27 passengers and six crew members disappears in Namibia.
Australia and South Korea successfully negotiate a free trade agreement.
A record level of smog is reported in Shanghai causing officials to issue the highest level health warning and delaying of hundreds of flights.
Barack Obama and Raul Castro exchange handshakes despite a United States embargo against Cuba.
Prince Harry and his "Walking with the Wounded" team reach the South Pole after three weeks trekking in the Antarctic.
Tunisian politicians select Mehdi Jomaa as the acting Prime Minister of Tunisia until new elections are called.
Four buildings are evacuated on the Harvard University campus after unconfirmed claims that bombs were planted in them.
Several prominent Turkish businessmen and the sons of three cabinet ministers are arrested as part of an investigation into alleged bribery and corruption.
American businessman Jacob Ostreicher escapes Bolivia two years after being imprisoned without charge.
The United Nations says that they have discovered a mass grave containing 75 bodies in Unity State, and two other mass graves have been reported in Juba.
Seven-time Formula One drivers' champion Michael Schumacher is reported to be in critical condition after brain surgery in Grenoble for a head injury suffered while skiing in the French Alps.
Latvia becomes the 18th EU member state to adopt the euro despite public opposition.
Two suspected Al-Qaeda militants are killed in a U.S. drone strike in the southeastern province of Hadhramaut.
Alberta Health Services confirms first avian flu death in Alberta.
U.S. sports personality and Basketball Hall of Famer Dennis Rodman defends his visits to North Korea after he is criticized by the family of an American detainee.
Protesters gather in Bangkok to shut down the city centre in an effort to bring down the government of Prime Minister of Thailand Yingluck Shinawatra.
Communitary forces take several towns in Mexican state of Michoacán trying to expel the Knights Templar Cartel forces, and prompting the intervention of Mexican Army against them.
The United States returns 11th-12th century sculptures stolen by art thieves from temples in India.
A British photographer designs and builds a drone as a low cost alternative for shooting nature documentaries.
California Governor Jerry Brown declares a drought emergency and asks residents of the state to voluntarily conserve water.
Monsoon rains cause flooding in the Indonesian capital Jakarta causing the evacuation of more than 30,000 people.
The United States rejects the invitation of Iran by the United Nations in peace talks involving Syria.
Ukrainian security forces start dismantling protest camps in Kiev with two protesters feared dead after clashes with police. ,
Scientists from the European Space Agency and other institutions detect the presence of water vapour on Ceres.
Hong Kong orders the destruction of 20,000 chickens after the H7N9 bird flu strain is found in chickens imported from mainland China.
Scientists warn that penguin populations may be declining due to extreme environmental conditions related to climate change
In India, the first 8.9 km of the Mumbai Monorail is inaugurated.
Philippine President Benigno Aquino III compares China's territory claims in the South China Sea to Nazi Germany's invasion of Czechoslovakia.
Fighting between Syrian rebels and government forces rages around the Aleppo Central Prison in the war-torn city of Aleppo, but it is unclear whether rebels control all or part of the facility.
Civilians are evacuated from a rebel-held area of the Syrian city of Homs after more than 18 months under a government blockade.
A measles outbreak from the Philippines has spread into Australia, Canada, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom.
Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro arrests opposition activists in reaction to an "attempted coup" against his government.
Botswana ends diplomatic relations with North Korea following a UN report on the latter's human rights record.
Chinese vessels reportedly harassed Filipino fishermen off the coast of the Philippines last January 27, according to the Philippine military.
A 4.4-billion-year-old crystal from Western Australia has been confirmed as the oldest fragment of Earth's crust.
Chaos erupts in Stockholm after the Swedish Public Employment Service by mistake invites 61,000 persons to the same job interview.
Alfonso Cuarón wins the Academy Award for Best Director for the film Gravity, which earned the most Awards during the ceremony, a total of seven.
Vladimir Putin orders troops near the Ukraine border to return to their bases with Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov calling the military exercises a "success".
UN Envoy Robert Serry is ordered to leave Crimea at gunpoint after being threatened by 10–15 armed men.
The Israel Defense Forces captures an Iranian ship carrying long-range artillery rockets to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip
Two members of the protest band Pussy Riot are left with chemical burns and head injuries after being attacked by a group of people in a McDonald's.
A study released by the University of California, San Diego shows that vitamin D increases the chances of survival in patients suffering from breast cancer.
An intoxicated hit-and-run driver in Austin, Texas, United States, drives into a nighttime crowd at the South by Southwest festival, killing two and injuring 23
A French court sentences former Rwandan army captain Pascal Simbikangwa to 25 years for his role in the 1994 Rwandan genocide.
A 6.7 magnitude earthquake strikes off the coast of Chile with officials issuing precautionary tsunami warnings for the nation's coast.
The United Nations Children's Fund reports that an outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus that has so far claimed the lives of 59 victims has spread from southern Guinea to the capital Conakry.
The interim President of Ukraine Olexander Turchynov orders Ukrainian forces to withdraw from Crimea.
Alan Shatter fights for his political survival in front of the Republic's parliament when he faces questions about yesterday's revelations of decades-long nationwide bugging.
Canada's Atlantic seaboard provinces brace for a spring blizzard that is predicted to be the worst storm in a decade.
Prince Muqrin bin Abdulaziz Al Saud is confirmed as second-in-line to the Saudi Arabian throne.
The US Geological Survey records a 5.1 magnitude earthquake in the Los Angeles area of California.
The first possible case is reported in Mali, with the death toll rising in Guinea and Liberia to 90.
The world's two largest cement manufacturers, LaFarge of France and Holcim of Switzerland, agree to a merger that would create a firm with a market value of $55 billion.
A massive forest fire in Valparaíso, Chile destroys thousands of homes and leaves 11 people dead.
The death toll from the West Africa ebola outbreak reaches 121.
Six armored personnel carriers belonging to the Ukrainian military are captured by pro-Russian protesters amid rising tensions between the protestors and the military.
Russian President Vladimir Putin admits having sent Russian forces to Crimea last month to protect its military equipment there.
An official study released by the Chinese government reveals that about one-fifth of China's soil is contaminated.
The UK government announces that Cornish people will be granted minority status under Council of Europe rules for the protection of national minorities.
Tornadoes hit the Arkansas towns of Vilonia and Mayflower with reports of casualties.
More than 50 royal mummies have been discovered by Egyptian and Swiss archeologists in the newly opened KV40 tomb in Egypt's Valley of the Kings.
The People's Republic of China and Russia announce plans to hold joint naval exercises in the East China Sea in late May amid regional tensions about islands and airspace.
The first U.S. case of MERS is reported in Munster, Indiana, of someone who travelled to Saudi Arabia.
The Sunday Herald becomes the first Scottish newspaper to declare its support for a Yes vote in the forthcoming referendum on Scottish independence.
The World Health Organization states that the spread of polio is an international public health emergency.
A 5.0 magnitude earthquake strikes Shaheed Benazir Abad District, Pakistan, killing 1 person and injuring another 70.
A group named Turkestan Islamic Party claims the responsibility for the attack on Ürümqi Railway Station in China.
AstraZeneca rejects the latest, and likely the last, takeover price from Pfizer, close to 70 billion pounds or US$118 billion.
Nest Labs announces plans to recall 440,000 smoke alarms to fix a problem that could cause the alarms to not go off immediately after detecting smoke.
The International Institute for Species Exploration announces the "Top 10 New Species" of 2013.
The newly elected President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko vows to continue Kiev's anti-terrorist operation against pro-Russian militants in the east.
A report sponsored by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and published online by the Lancet finds that 30% of the world's population is overweight or obese.
Psy's "Gangnam Style" becomes the first video to reach 2 billion views on YouTube.
In boxing, Carl Froch knocks out George Groves in the eighth round to retain the World Boxing Association and International Boxing Federation super middleweight championships.
A study published in The New England Journal of Medicine links MERS to several infected camels.
The World Health Organisation estimates that an outbreak of the ebola virus has killed more than 200 people in West Africa.
Vietnamese banking tycoon Nguyen Duc Kien is sentenced to 30 years in prison in Vietnam on charges of tax evasion, violating state economic regulations, fraud, and running an illegal business.
German ex-Formula 1 champion Michael Schumacher is out of an induced coma and has left Grenoble Hospital in France for further rehabilitation.
The President of the United States, Barack Obama, proposes to expand the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument, creating the world's largest marine sanctuary in the Central Pacific Ocean.
The Ukraine Parliament confirms all government candidates, including that of foreign minister, appointed the previous day by President Petro Poroshenko.
Egypt's president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi makes his first official visit abroad to Algeria where security was top of the agenda.
Scientists identify a new species of elephant shrew, named Macroscelides micus.
North Korea says it will put on trial two American tourists, Jeffrey Fowle and Michael Miller, for crimes against the state.
The prehistoric bird Pelagornis sandersi is identified as the largest flying bird yet discovered.
An experimental vaccine for dengue fever has been developed in Manila.
Four Slovenian skiing officials are suspended for allegedly rigging results so that violinist Vanessa-Mae could compete for Thailand in alpine skiing.
The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum obtains a full copy of the archives of the United Nations War Crimes Commission from World War II and makes it available online.
A firefighting helicopter searching for missing people from the sinking of the MV Sewol in April crashes in the South Korean city of Gwangju with five people aboard.
Dr. Kent Brantly, the medical director for Samaritan's Purse in Liberia, tests positive for the virus.
Danish scientists find a genetic variant among Greenlanders that dramatically increases the risk of developing type-2 diabetes.
The World Health Organisation estimates that the death toll from the Ebola virus outbreak has risen to 887.
Officials in Karamay in Xinjiang, western China, places a temporary ban on Islamic headscarves, clothing and those with beards from using public transport, following violence in the region.
The US launches a fourth round of air strikes targeting Islamic State fighters near Erbil, and Kurdish forces regain control of two towns in Nineveh province after heavy fighting.
Protests against the shooting of Michael Brown by the Ferguson Police Department in the US state of Missouri turn violent.
The Democratic Republic of Congo confirms two deaths from Ebola in the north of the country, the first cases reported from the current outbreak.
Ukrainian forces say they managed to stop a larger part of a convoy of around 50 armoured vehicles, which entered Ukraine from the border with Russia near Novoazovsk.
The President of Russia Vladimir Putin meets with the President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko in Minsk, Belarus, as disputes in eastern Ukraine continue.
The UN Human Rights Council issues a report accusing both IS militants and Syrian government forces of committing war crimes in Syria.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reports that dozens of Syrian government forces, captured after the loss of the Tabqa air base, were executed by IS militants.
The United Nations Security Council will hold an emergency session on Ukraine at the request of Lithuania.
In association football, Cristiano Ronaldo of Real Madrid wins the UEFA Best Player in Europe Award ahead of Manuel Neuer and Arjen Robben of Bayern Munich.
Malaysian Airlines announces plans to lay off 6000 staff as a result of a restructuring following the loss of two aircraft in disasters this year.
Judith Collins resigns from the New Zealand Cabinet following allegations that she undermined the head of the Serious Fraud Office in 2011 when she had ministerial responsibility.
Mohammad Reza Rahimi, former Iranian vice president, is convicted to a prison term for his role in the 2011 embezzlement scandal.
Pharmacy chain CVS Pharmacy announces it will change its name to "CVS Health" and cease marketing tobacco products.
Two species of dendrogramma, found off the coast of Australia in 1986, are discovered to be unclassifiable in any existing phylum.
China says two pilots conducting fighter jet take-off and landing tests for the Chinese aircraft carrier Liaoning were killed during trials.
American twins Bob and Mike Bryan win their fifth US Open men's doubles title, giving them 100 ATP World Tour titles as a team.
Clarence House confirms that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting their second child.
Gold extends a fresh three-month low as a stronger U.S. dollar sapped investor appetite for the metal.
India suspends rescue operations due to heavy rain in Jammu and Kashmir state where over 100,000 still await rescue.
Lawmakers from Ukraine ratify a landmark agreement with the European Union in tandem with a meeting of the European Parliament.
Australia raises security for its Parliament after conducting raids that arrest dozens of suspected terrorists.
Students from more than 20 universities and colleges in Hong Kong are boycotting class in protest against Beijing’s decision to rule out fully democratic elections.
NASA's MAVEN space probe successfully arrives in orbit over Mars.
The World Health Organisation says that the death toll from the Ebola virus is over 2,900.
Fatah and Hamas agree to form a unity government on the Gaza Strip.
Pacific walruses unable to find sea ice on which to rest in Arctic waters are coming ashore in record numbers on a beach in north-west Alaska.
18,000 Palestinians are facing life-threatening shortages of water in the Yarmouk Camp neighborhood of Damascus.
British neuroscientist John O'Keefe and Norwegian scientists May-Britt Moser and Edvard Moser share the 2014 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
Albania's prime minister is embroiled in scandal after his brother is linked to the stunt.
In North American Major League Baseball, the Kansas City Royals sweep the Baltimore Orioles in the 2014 American League Championship Series 4-0 to progress to the 2014 World Series.
Mali confirms that a 2-year-old girl has tested positive for Ebola, marking the country's first documented case.
Protesters in Iran call for increased security after four women are injured in acid attacks in Isfahan for allegedly not wearing veils.
The Temple Mount in Jerusalem was closed to all visitors for the first time since 2000, following the attempted assassination of Israeli activist Yehuda Glick.
Mexican Federal Police arrest a mayor and his wife, the alleged masterminds of the kidnapping of 43 students in Iguala, Guerrero.
Mali confirms that it has a new case of Ebola virus, this time in the capital Bamako.
The Church of England adopts legislation paving the way for the appointment of female bishops.
UNESCO declares the Rizal Monument in Manila, Machu Picchu of Peru, Camino de Santiago of Spain, and the Dampier Archipelago of Australia as World Heritage Sites in Danger.
The Scottish Parliament elects Nicola Sturgeon as the first female First Minister of Scotland.
A roadside bomb planted at a bus station near the town of Mubi in northeastern Nigeria kills 40, including 5 soldiers.
Greek labor unions begin a general strike to protest ongoing government austerity measures shuting down public medical, educational, and transportational services.
France sets a new record for unemployment with 3.46 million recorded in October.
The UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East declares a state of emergency on the Gaza Strip following heavy floods.
The United Nations World Food Program suspends a food program for 1.7 million Syrian refugees after donor countries fail to meet their commitments.
A South African judge rules that the prosecution can appeal the decision not to convict Oscar Pistorius for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp in 2013 to the Supreme Court of Appeal.
In the NBA, Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers moves to third on the all-time point scorer list overtaking Michael Jordan.
A tunnel collapse traps twelve Vietnamese workers, including one woman, at a construction site of a hydropower plant located in the Central Highlands.
US clothing company Gap Inc. agrees to distribute their apparels to Chinese e-commerce company JD.com.
A South Korean court orders the dissolution of the Unified Progressive Party citing pro-North Korean stances.
In cricket, the Boxing Day Test commences at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, with Australia playing against India.
In the latest advance in Operation Indian Ocean, Somali government forces assisted by AMISOM troops capture seven towns in the central Hiran province from Al-Shabaab.
President of Gambia Yahya Jammeh remains in power after a failed coup attempt while he was travelling outside the country.
Pope Francis announces the appointment of 20 new Cardinals, many of them coming from outside of Europe.
Ireland becomes the first European nation to be allowed to export beef to the United States since the mad cow disease scare 15 years ago.
In ice hockey, the 2015 World Junior Ice Hockey Championship closes with Canada beating Russia in the gold medal game, while Slovakia captures bronze.
Cuba starts releasing political prisoners as part of an historic agreement with the United States announced last month.
NASA's Kepler space observatory announces the discovery of three new planets in the Goldilocks zone capable of supporting life.
The US Olympic Committee chooses the city of Boston as the American bid city to host the 2024 Summer Olympics.
The Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report estimates the effectiveness of the influenza vaccination in 2014–2015 at 23% which is the lowest since 2006.
Chinese officials impose an emergency ban on tourists approaching pandas subsequent to the death of two pandas from a canine distemper virus.
According to preliminary tests at the Glendive, Montana city water treatment plant, the January 17 oil spill in the Yellowstone River contains benzene, a chemical that causes cancer.
The government-installed pollution gauges that were set up along roadside stations to monitor Hong Kong reach the maximum level of their ranges.
City officials of Glendive, Montana declare that the tap water is safe to consume following the January 17 oil spill in the Yellowstone River.
File sharing site Pirate Bay returns online after having been shut down by Swedish authorities in December 2014.
Iran successfully puts the Fajr satellite in orbit using a Safir-B1 rocket.
Twelve people die of swine flu in the Indian state of Gujarat taking the death toll to 136 since January with 130 new cases reported.
The Prime Minister of Australia Tony Abbott issues a last-minute plea for Bali Nine drug smugglers Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran facing the death penalty in Indonesia.
The 2015 Cricket World Cup begins with New Zealand playing Sri Lanka at Christchurch's Hagley Oval and Australia playing England at the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
Cyclone Marcia is expected to strengthen to category 5 before making landfall in Central Queensland. ,
Israel is hit by the heaviest snow storm in a century causing the closure of schools and highways in high places throughout the country.
Research published in the journal Nature claims that a large portion of the lithium in the universe was produced by novae.
John Key, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, announces plans to deploy up to 143 New Zealand Defence Force personnel to Iraq on a training mission to last no more than two years.
In rugby league, the Australian-based National Rugby League takes over control of the Gold Coast Titans following five current players being charged with supplying cocaine.
The Argentine National Congress approves installation of a Chinese satellite tracking station in Patagonia.
Energy-rich Kazakhstan suspends Russian fuel and gas imports to protect its domestic market from a surplus due to a weakened ruble which has sent ripples of economic uncertainty through Central Asia.
U.S. President Barack Obama signs an executive order declaring Venezuela a national security threat to the U.S.
The United States Food and Drug Administration approves genetically modified potatoes and apples.
The Opportunity rover completes a Martian marathon, the first time any vehicle has traveled more than 26.2 miles on the surface of another world.
An American sailor who was lost for 66 days in the Atlantic Ocean is found by a German tanker.
Burkina Faso culls 115,000 chickens over a bird flu scare.
Kentucky U.S. Senator Rand Paul announces that he will seek the Republican nomination for the U.S. presidency in 2016.
Benjamin Netanyahu demands that any final agreement on the Iranian nuclear program include a "clear and unambiguous Iranian recognition of Israel's right to exist."
A mystery disease that kills patients within 24 hours has killed at least 18 people within the past week in the Nigerian town of Ode-Irele in Ondo State.
Blue Bell Creameries recalls all of its products in the United States due to a Listeria monocytogenes outbreak.
Pope Francis accepts the resignation of Robert Finn as bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Kansas City–Saint Joseph for failing to report a suspected child abuser.
Kenyan Eliud Kipchoge topped all male runners and Ethiopian Tigist Tufa won the women's elite event in the 35th running of the London Marathon.
State-owned gas company, Gazprom, loses 86 percent in net income due to ruble devaluation, plunge on oil prices, and Ukraine crisis.
Thousands of people are fleeing Kathmandu due to uncertainty over food supply.
The sovereign bonds of Germany experience second straight day of historic sell-off, dragging other securities in much of the continent with them.
South Korea claims that North Korea has executed its defense chief Hyon Yong-chol with an anti-aircraft gun.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is sentenced to death for his role in the Boston Marathon bombings.
Cleanup continues after the Refugio Oil Spill at Refugio State Beach along the coast of Santa Barbara County, California.
Science publishes a series of papers on biodiversity in the deep sea, including tens of thousands of single-celled organisms most of which had not been previously identified.
Record breaking rain causes flooding in the American states of Oklahoma and Texas with Oklahoma City recording record rainfall levels for the month of May.
The newly elected British House of Commons commences its session with the State Opening of Parliament ceremony in which the Queen's Speech is delivered.
The number of deaths from MERS in South Korea rises to six with 23 new cases reported.
Spain gives the late writer Miguel de Cervantes, author of Don Quixote, a formal burial at a Madrid convent nearly 400 years after his death in 1616.
The European Space Agency's Philae spacecraft wakes up after six months in hibernation as comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko gets closer to the sun.
Nepal announces plans to reopen heritage sites in the Kathmandu Valley two months after the April 2015 Nepal earthquake.
Ninety-four people die, and 45 others are hospitalized, after drinking moonshine in Mumbai (Bombay), India.
Prime Minister of Greece Alexis Tsipras makes a new offer for reforms which could signal a late deal in the country's debt talks.
India offers Nepal an additional billion dollars to help it recover from the April 2015 Nepal earthquake.
The European Union has reached agreement to share at least 40,000 migrants over two years. ,
The Hellenic Parliament passes a package of economic reforms to end the current stage of the debt crisis.
Nominations for the 67th Primetime Emmy Awards are announced with Game of Thrones receiving 24 nominations.
The People's Republic of China releases 10 South African tourists held for allegedly distributing terrorist material.
In golf, the final round of The Open Championship is played at the Old Course at St Andrews in Scotland with Zach Johnson winning a four hole playoff with Marc Leishman and Louis Oosthuizen. ,
Two suicide bombings at a swimming pool in northern Iraq kill at least 12 people.
The Tunisian parliament approves a new anti-terror law that allows the death penalty for terrorists.
Debris found near the Indian Ocean island of Réunion is consistent with material from a Boeing 777 and is being examined to confirm whether it is from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia announces that 8-year old Zion Harvey became the first pediatric patient to receive a double hand transplant earlier this month.
Researchers from the University of California, Riverside discover that soybean oil and corn oil increase diabetes rates in mice more than coconut oil and fructose.
The death toll from an outbreak of legionnaires disease in New York City rises to eight with 97 people sick.
The Government of Cambodia claims that the Royal Thai Army has killed five Cambodians since January.
South Korea and the United States commence a joint military exercise despite threats from North Korea.
The United States announces that it is proposing sanctions against those connected to the South Sudan conflict, unless a ceasefire is reached promptly.
Typhoon Goni leaves seven people dead and two people missing as it moves from the Philippines towards Taiwan and Okinawa, Japan.
Malaysia finds the bodies of more than 20 people believed to be victims of human trafficking in mass graves buried near the border with Thailand.
A teenage girl suicide bomber kills five people and injures fourteen others in the Damaturu area in northeast Nigeria.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights claims that ISIL has blown up the ancient Temple of Bel in Palmyra.
South Africa will become the first African nation to host the Commonwealth Games as Durban is granted the rights to host the games in 2022.
BlackBerry Limited announces it will purchase Good Technology, a provider of mobile software, as part of its broader shift to a services role within the internet of things.
The Delhi government defers elective surgery to free up 1000 hospital beds to treat a dengue fever outbreak.
Martin Winterkorn resigns as the CEO of Volkswagen as a result of an emissions cheating scandal.
England becomes the first host nation and first former finalist to be knocked out of the Rugby World Cup during the group stages following their defeat to Australia.
The World Health Organization announces that, since the Ebola outbreak began in March 2014, last week marked the first week of no new cases worldwide.
The American Cancer Society recommends women at average risk of breast cancer should begin annual mammograms at age 45, and women 55 and older scale back screening to every other year.
Lewis Hamilton wins a third World Drivers' Championship in Formula One, as his team Mercedes secures the Constructors' Championship.
A new study by scientists finds that areas around the Persian Gulf could become uninhabitable to humans in less than 100 years due to rising temperatures.
A series of blasts at an ammunition depot in Svatove, Luhansk region of eastern Ukraine leaves four dead and eight injured.
Royals catcher Salvador Perez wins the World Series Most Valuable Player Award.
Harvard Law School Professor Lawrence Lessig announces his decision, via a four-minute YouTube video, to end his campaign for the 2016 Democratic Party presidential nomination.
The Japanese economy goes into recession for the second time since the election of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Leaders and representatives from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints release statements clarifying recent policy changes effecting same-sex couples and their children.
A mass brawl breaks out in a refugee shelter in Berlin with a hundred police required to restore order.
According to the FBI, the couple that perpetrated the attack had long been radicalized, and had been practicing at a target range days before their murder spree.
U.S. airplane manufacturer Boeing unveils the first Boeing 737 MAX airplane at its factory in Renton, Washington.
The United States Food and Drug Administration approves the Merck & Co. drug, Bridion, that reverses the effects of muscle relaxants used during surgery.
Germany recruits 8,500 teachers to provide special German language lessons for 196,000 Syrian child refugees.
Trade is suspended on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Stock Exchange for a second time in a week after share prices tumble following the devaluation of the yuan.
The Chinese securities regulator introduces legislation limiting the sale of shares by shareholders.
Windows 8 along with Internet Explorer versions 8, 9 and 10 are now officially unsupported by Microsoft.
Former Prime Minister of Thailand Yingluck Shinawatra appears in court to face corruption charges.
Sierra Leone imposes quarantine on hundreds of people following a recent death from the Ebola virus.
Greece faces suspension or expulsion from the European Union's Schengen Area if it can not prevent waves of migrants from crossing over the country into Macedonia.
Human rights activists claim that three pro-democracy advocates have been sentenced to up to five years imprisonment on charges of attempting to overthrow the Communist Party government in Guangzhou.
Social networking service Facebook, and its photo-sharing subsidiary Instagram, ban private, person-to-person sales of guns via their services.
Jamaican health officials confirm the country's first case of the Zika virus in a 4-year-old child who recently returned from a trip to Texas.
Haiti delays Carnival celebrations over concern that anti-government protests might turn violent.
Billy Kenoi, the mayor of Hawaii's Big Island, declares a state of emergency to deal with the growing outbreak of dengue fever, which is spread by infected mosquitoes.
The LIGO Scientific Collaboration experiment announces the first direct observation of gravitational waves. , ,
Canadian multinational aerospace and transportation company Bombardier Inc. is to cut 7,000 jobs worldwide over the next two years, including over a thousand jobs in the United Kingdom.
Serbia closes its southern border with Macedonia to migrants from countries not affected by war as part of measures to prevent illegal immigration.
ISIL militants cut off the Syrian Army's main supply route to the city of Aleppo and capture the village of Khanasir, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.
The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is investigating 14 cases where the Zika virus may have been sexually transmitted.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un orders nuclear weapons to be ready for use at any time.
Aden unrest Airstrikes on the Al-Qaeda-held Al-Mansoura district in the port city of Aden, kill at least 17 militants and injure 20 civilians, according to local medics and a Yemeni security official.
Radar scans at the tomb of Tutankhamun, Pharaoh of Ancient Egypt, reveal two chambers adjoining the tomb, raising prospect of finding the resting place of Queen Nefertiti.
Dutch iconic professional footballer and manager Johan Cruyff dies from lung cancer at the age of 68.
Thousands of people in Dublin, Ireland, attend the Irish government's commemoration of the 1916 Easter Rising against British rule.
Belgium officials lower the official death toll from 35 to 32, with nearly 100 still hospitalized.
Hundreds of arrests are reported in the U.S. Capitol in response to the Democracy Spring protests.
A British brain scan study of Lysergic acid diethylamide shows LSD may be useful in treating mental disorders such as major depressive disorder.
Ethiopia claims that members of South Sudan's Murle people have killed 140 people and abducted 39 children.
Mayor of London and cabinet member Boris Johnson says that U.S. President Barack Obama is "inconsistent and hypocritical" in persuading the British people to remain in the European Union.
Spain commemorates the 400th anniversary of the death of its most famous author Miguel de Cervantes.
In basketball, the Golden State Warriors, the top seed in the ongoing NBA playoffs, announce that the NBA's reigning MVP, Stephen Curry, will miss at least two weeks with a sprained MCL.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports the first Zika virus related death in the United States, an elderly man in Puerto Rico.
The death toll from the Kenya floods including the Nairobi building collapse rises to fourteen.
The Football Federation of Kosovo becomes the 55th member of UEFA following a secret ballot at the 40th Ordinary UEFA Congress in Budapest.
A Swedish court sentences Claver Berinkindi, a 61-year-old Swedish citizen originally from Rwanda, to life in prison for participation in the Rwandan genocide in 1994.
In the Philippine general election, the Liberal Party emerges as the party with a plurality of seats in the Philippine Senate election, 2016 and Philippine House of Representatives elections, 2016.
Two hundred thousand people flee the Sri Lankan capital Colombo as floods caused by several days of heavy rain worsen.
The World Health Organization confirms that the Zika virus strain spreading in Cape Verde is the same as the one in the Americas.
Reports claim that an Egyptian forensic official says that body parts recovered from EgyptAir flight 804 indicate that the crash was caused by an explosion.
A preliminary study by the National Toxicology Program finds that cellphone radiation has the potential to increase the risk of tumor growth in male rats.
As of this day, local and central government are prohibited from making announcements in a way that could affect the outcome of the referendum.
Association football icon Pelé announces that he will sell 1,500 lots of his possessions via Julien's Auctions, which will include his medals, trophies, jerseys, and diplomatic gifts.
Haiti will redo its presidential election after findings of widespread voter fraud in last years voting.
The World Health Organization advises women in areas where the Zika virus is prevalent to delay pregnancies.
Scientists confirm a second detection of gravitational waves by LIGO.
One of five Hong Kong booksellers who disappeared in 2015 says he was forced by Chinese agents into a confession of "illegal trading".
Duterte wants to return capital punishment in the country so he can hang people.
Rebels of the New Syrian Army begin an offensive to capture the eastern town of al-Bukamal, currently held by ISIL militants.
Donald Trump accepts the nomination of the Republican Party in the 2016 US Presidential election.
Russia's track and field athletes will not be allowed to compete in the Rio Olympic Games, even if they did not fail drug tests, after an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport is rejected.
Every square inch of the United States is forecasted to have hotter-than-normal temperatures for the first time in recorded history.
The Bank of Japan announces a 6 trillion yen stimulus package to help invigorate the Japanese economy.
The American Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating claims that the Hillary Clinton campaign has been hacked as part of recent cyber-attacks on the Democrats. ,
A Syria Civil Defence volunteer search and rescue team says 33 people, mostly women and children, were affected by toxic gas dropped from a helicopter on Saraqeb in rebel-held Idlib Governorate.
China's unmanned lunar rover Yutu shuts down after exploring the Moon for 31 months.
Hong Kong's Centre for Health Protection confirms Hong Kong's first case of Zika virus in a 38-year-old woman and says it will report the case to the World Health Organization (WHO).
A curfew has ended in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir after 52 days of protest allowing for an all-party delegation to visit the state on Sunday.
The number of Zika virus infected in Singapore rises above 40.
The population of African elephants have fallen by about 30% between 2007 and 2014.
The oldest fossil (stromatolite) that had life is discovered in the melting snow at the Isua Greenstone Belt of Greenland.
U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin fail to agree on a peace deal regarding the Syrian civil war.
A suicide bomber attacks a charity in the Kabul suburb of Shāre Naw with the Taliban claiming responsibility.
A new infection of the Zika virus spreads to the Philippines.
American swimmer Ryan Lochte agrees to a 10-month suspension while his other colleagues get four.
The Department of Health of the Philippines discover an additional two cases of Zika virus infections bringing the total to eight.
The Cuban-born American arsonist who torched 87 people in March 1990 at The Bronx Happy Land fire, Julio González, dies in prison at the age of 61.
Citing irreconcilable differences, Angelina Jolie files for divorce from Brad Pitt and seeks full custody of their six children.
A triple suicide bomb attack north of Tikrit kills at least 11 and injures another 34 members of Iraqi security forces.
The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission warns that Samsung washing machines may explode if washing heavy load items at high speeds.
2016 FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup, the first ever FIFA women’s football tournament in the Middle East, kicks off in Jordan.
The World Health Organization warns that the Zika virus will continue to spread across Asia with cases already reported in Singapore and Thailand.
Google introduces a so-called "fact checking" feature on its news aggregate service to combat alleged political bias.
Philippines president Rodrigo Duterte says he plans to cut ties with his country's former colonial ruler, the United States, while strengthening ties with China.
Iraqi Special Operations Forces have fought their way into the outskirts of Mosul.
A woman who was allegedly raped by Donald Trump drops her lawsuit against the presidential candidate.
The leaders of northern and southern Cyprus meet in Switzerland to restart talks about reuniting the island.
President-elect of the United States Donald Trump meets with President Barack Obama for the first time at the White House.
Samsung Electronics agrees to buy the U.S.-based Harman International Industries for $8 billion in the biggest overseas acquisition ever by a South Korean company.
The World Health Organization declares an end to its global health crisis over the spread of the Zika virus as it has been shown to be a dangerous mosquito-borne disease like malaria or yellow fever.
Ayatollah Khamenei warns that Iran will retaliate if sanctions that breach the Nuclear Deal are approved.
Scientists say warm seas around Australia's Great Barrier Reef have killed two-thirds of a 435-mile stretch of coral in the past nine months.
American film actor and producer Kirk Douglas, one of the last living movie stars of the Golden Age of Hollywood, celebrates his 100th birthday.
Cardell Hayes is found guilty of manslaughter by a Louisiana jury in the road rage shooting death of former New Orleans Saints star Will Smith.
In Brooklyn New York, 2 brothers were stabbed, 1 fatally in a dispute after a school soccer match.
A vaccine for the ebola virus is discovered to be 99.78%–99.87% effective.
American actress Debbie Reynolds has a stroke and dies one day after her daughter Carrie Fisher's death.
The Attorney General of Israel Avichai Mandelblit orders a criminal investigation of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for alleged corruption in two different cases.
The United States expels 35 Russian diplomats over the alleged Russian interference during the U.S.'s 2016 presidential election.
At least seven people are killed and 30 trapped after a pile of waste collapses in a Coal India mine in Jharkhand.
Mo Farah and world tennis number one Andy Murray are among those knighted by Elizabeth II in her 2017 New Year Honours list.
Authorities seek three men after they rob $6 million on New Year's Eve from the offices of high-end jewelry designer Gregg Ruth in New York City.
A UCLA research team, analyzing lunar minerals brought back during the Apollo program, reports that the moon is at least 4.51 billion years old, up to 150 million years older than previous estimates.,
Uber agrees to pay $20 million to settle U.S. Federal Trade Commission claims the company exaggerated prospective earnings and downplayed the costs of buying/leasing a car when recruiting new drivers.
Japanese toilet industries agreed to standardize the iconography of electric toilet seat controls in order to make them less confusing for users.
Mashhad in northeastern Iran was officially named the capital of the Islamic culture in 2017 by the ISESCO.
Israeli authorities approve 153 construction permits for settlement homes in East Jerusalem, and plan to approve another 11,000 in the coming months.
The Indian Space Research Organisation launches a record 104 satellites in single mission.
Seattle-based Amazon.com says it will create 15,000 new full-time jobs across Europe by the end of 2017, increasing its European workforce by approximately 30 percent.
More than 4.9 million people in South Sudan are in need of aid due to a famine.
The Guatemalan army blockades a ship from the Dutch NGO Women on Waves that provides material for abortions.
Casey Affleck wins the Best Actor for his role in Manchester by the Sea, which also won Best Original Screenplay.
The Trump administration plans to increase the budget of the United States Armed Forces by more than 9%.
Near the town of Ramle, Israeli archeologists uncover hundreds of gin and whiskey bottles dating back to the First World War at the site of a former British Army barracks.
Taliban insurgents seize control of the strategic town of Sangin in the southern Helmand Province after a year-long battle with Afghan security forces.
The night parrot is confirmed sighted (and photographed) in Western Australia for first time in nearly 100 years.
The Big Maple Leaf, a solid gold 1 million dollar Canadian coin weighing 100 kilograms (220 lb), is stolen from the Bode Museum in Berlin, Germany.
A bomb targets a mosque in the city of Parachinar near the border with Afghanistan killing at least 22 people and wounding dozens more.
A bus carrying around 50 school children rolls over on a highway south of Sveg in the northern region of Härjedalen, Sweden, killing three people.
An Egyptian excavation team discovers the remains of a pyramid dating back 3,700 years to the thirteenth Dynasty of Egypt at the Dahshur necropolis 40km south of Cairo. ,
The United States is to deploy troops to Somalia for the first time since 1994 to help train the Somali Armed Forces in their conflict with al-Shabaab insurgents.
Plans for a Chicago-based presidential library in honour of the former U.S. President Obama are revealed.
France bans the breeding of killer whales and dolphins in captivity and orders aquariums and water parks to expand their pools within three years following a campaign by animal rights groups.
Incumbent Prime Minister Perry Christie of the Progressive Liberal Party concedes defeat to Hubert Minnis of the Free National Movement.
Mountaineers led by Tim Mosedale confirm suspicions that Mount Everest's famous Hillary Step had completely collapsed.
Gunmen open fire on buses carrying Coptic Christians in Minya Governorate, Egypt, killing at least 28 people and injuring dozens more.
A spokesman for the Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurant chain reveals that hackers stole customer payment data from most of their stores over a span of three weeks starting from the end of March.
Colombey authorities report the tomb of French national hero Charles de Gaulle has been vandalized.
The government of the Philippines and the Communist Party cancel peace talks after president Rodrigo Duterte declares martial law in Mindanao.
Japan Tobacco announces plans to quadruple its output of smokeless tobacco by the end of next year.
Robert Kaplan, head of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, says that low bond yields suggest sluggish growth ahead for the economy of the United States. .
All 800 homes in the five tower blocks of the Chalcots Estate, in Camden, London, are evacuated after the cladding was declared to have failed fire safety tests.
Chinese political activist and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo is released from prison on medical parole after being diagnosed with terminal liver cancer.
France's National Front leader Marine Le Pen is under investigation for alleged misuse of European Union funding.
A garment factory boiler explosion in Dhaka, Bangladesh, kills 10 people and injures dozens.
Volvo says it plans to phase out fossil fuels by building only electric or hybrid cars.
UNESCO declares the old city of Hebron and the Cave of the Patriarchs, both in the West Bank, as world heritage sites.
Coffee may prolong the human lifespan, suggests one study by Imperial College London and the International Agency for Research on Cancer, and another by the Keck School of Medicine of USC.
Researchers in New Zealand have discovered that the MeNZB vaccine for meningitis may protect against gonorrhea by 30%.
Several major internet companies and activist groups post messages defending net neutrality.
The President of Spanish Football Federation and Vicepresident of FIFA and UEFA, Ángel María Villar, is arrested with his son amid a corruption scandal.
A hearing in the U.S. Senate is held about alleged human rights violations in the Philippines's war against illegal drugs.
Brown University researchers discover that a substantial amount of water may be present beneath the surface of the Moon. ,
Reformist candidate Mohammad-Ali Najafi is unanimously elected Mayor of Tehran by the city council, ending the 12-year tenure of Principlist Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf.
A mudslide triggered by heavy rain near Sierra Leone's capital Freetown, kills at least 350 people with the death toll expected to rise as high as 500.
Pakistan holds a state funeral for German-born Catholic nun Ruth Pfau, known as "Pakistan's Mother Teresa," who devoted her life to eradicating leprosy in the South Asian country.
Tropical depression Harvey becomes a hurricane, expected to make landfall on the Texas coast at Category 3, bringing life-threatening storm surge, rainfall, and wind hazards.
Toronto's Sheraton Cadwell Orchestras closes and its management resigns following public backlash to a fat-shaming email that said only "physically fit and slim" singers would be featured in shows.
The opposition movement in Venezuela seeks help from France.
Google is being sued over alleged inequality in the pay of male and female employees.
A journalist for the British newspaper Financial Times is killed by a crocodile in Sri Lanka.
The World Health Organization says that hunger around the world has risen as a result of war and climate change.
Russian and Syrian warplanes carry out airstrikes in southern Idlib, killing three civilians and wounding others.
U.S. President Donald Trump announces new sanctions on North Korea over its nuclear weapons program.
The king of Saudi Arabia issues a decree allowing women to be issued driving licenses by June 2018.
The United Kingdom's Monarch Airlines goes into financial bankruptcy administration, suspending all flights, cancelling 300 thousand bookings, and leaving tens of thousands of passengers stranded.
The Federal Communications Commission approves Google's plan to restore some cell phone service in hurricane-hit Puerto Rico with Project Loon balloons.
The New York Police Department and London's Metropolitan Police Service open investigations into alleged sexual assault allegations against the American film producer Harvey Weinstein.
The Board of Directors of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences decides to strip Harvey Weinstein of membership following several allegations of predatory sexual behavior.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan announces that the Kazakh language will begin using a Latin script, rather than the current Cyrillic script.
A North Korean defector claims children are being born with deformities near North Korea's nuclear testing site.
U.S. President Donald Trump visits South Korea amidst a crisis with North Korea.
22 police agents are wounded in Brussels when celebrations for Morocco's 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification turn violent.
Former Zimbabwe finance minister Ignatius Chombo, who was arrested during Operation Restore Legacy, is charged in Harare Magistrate’s Court with three counts of fraud, abuse of power, and corruption.
A European Union appeal committee votes to reauthorise the use of glyphosate as a herbicide for a five-year period.
Apple Inc. faces backlash and lawsuits after admitting to slowing down the speed on some of their older phones deliberately. ,
North Korea’s foreign ministry, in an official statement, says the latest United Nations sanctions are an act of war and are, in effect, a complete economic blockade.
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are voted the most admired man and woman in the United States, according to Gallup's annual poll.
Iran enforces a ban on teaching English in elementary schools, calling it a "cultural invasion" by the West.
Zimbabwean politician Roy Bennett is killed in a helicopter crash near Raton, New Mexico, United States.
In American football, the Philadelphia Eagles win the National Football Conference, defeating the Minnesota Vikings 38–7.
Seven people die in clashes between security forces and worshippers taking part in an Ethiopian Orthodox religious ceremony marking Timkat (Epiphany) in Woldiya, Amhara, Ethiopia, over the weekend.
A judge in Amsterdam delays the extradition of the man suspected of a lethal stabbing on the Bruges Market Square, citing concerns over the living conditions in Belgian jails.
Scientists discover a large colony of more than 750,000 pairs of Adélie penguins on the Danger Islands in Antarctica.
A UNICEF report says that 20% of girls under 18 are married, compared to 25% ten years ago, with an estimated 25 million marriages having been prevented in the past decade.
British music journalism magazine New Musical Express (NME) issues its final print edition after 66 years, becoming a purely digital medium.
A second package presumed to have been sent by the bomber is discovered in a FedEx facility near Austin-Bergstrom International Airport.
U.S. graphics processing unit producer Nvidia suspends all its tests of self-driving cars.
Polish President Andrzej Duda vetoes a bill that would have demoted all communist-era military officers who served between 1944 and 1990 to private.
A study in Nature shows species which are visually unusual or attractive go extinct at higher rates.
8,500 prisoners are granted amnesty in Myanmar by President Win Myint.
On the anniversary of the Columbine High School massacre, thousands of students across the United States walk out of school to protest against school shootings.
Thailand expresses its interest in hosting the planned summit meeting between U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.
The government of Guyana reports that pirates attacked fishermen off the coast of neighboring Suriname.
A new outbreak of the Ebola virus disease kills at least 17 people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Prime Minister designate Giuseppe Conte gives up trying to form a government after President Sergio Mattarella earlier vetoed the nomination of technocrat Paolo Savona as Minister of Finance.
Donald Trump announces that he canceled his ceremony for the Super Bowl LII champion Philadelphia Eagles at the White House due to the National anthem protests controversy.
The Walt Disney Company announces that its animation chief, John Lasseter, will leave the company after December 31, after he was accused of misconduct late last year.
In basketball, the Golden State Warriors defeat the Cleveland Cavaliers in four games to win the National Basketball Association Championship.
Germany issues a recall of 73,000 eggs from the Netherlands suspected to be contaminated with fipronil.
Demetrius Pitts, accused of planning an al-Qaeda bombing in Cleveland, makes his first court appearance.
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed meets with Eritrean President Isaias Afwerki in Asmara and they pledge to restore diplomatic relations.
David Davis resigns as the United Kingdom's Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union amid disagreements with Prime Minister Theresa May over Brexit negotiations.
Divers in Thailand rescue four more boys from the cave Tham Luang Nang Non bringing the total to eight rescued.
Iranian women post videos of themselves dancing to protest the arrest of Instagram blogger Maedeh Hojabri.
The heat-related death toll in the Canadian province of Quebec rises to 70, with 34 of those occurring in Montreal.
France knocks out Belgium from the World Cup, with France moving on to the final against either Croatia or England.
Pakistan, Iran, China, and Russia agree on joint efforts against the Islamic State group in Afghanistan, in an effort to ensure peace and eliminate terrorism from the region.
In data collected by NASA's Juno spacecraft, an INAF team discovers suggestions of a new volcano close to the south pole of Jupiter's moon Io.
Iranian police arrest 46 people in fresh crackdowns on models and associated colleagues posting "immoral images" on Instagram.
The White House announces $12 billion in bailouts for farmers and ranchers affected by recently imposed retaliatory tariffs.
England's Local Government Association reports that approximately two-thirds of plastic objects which reach recycling facilities cannot be recycled, due to the mix of polymers used by producers.
NASA launches the Parker Solar Probe, an unpiloted spacecraft designed to study the sun.
Russian president Vladimir Putin attends the wedding of Austrian foreign minister Karin Kneissl (FPÖ) and businessman Wolfgang Malinger.
Liu Xiang breaks the 50-metre backstroke swimming world record, setting it at 26.98 seconds, to win the women’s gold medal at the Asian Games.
The Spanish government passes a decree which amends the Historical Memory Law to allow the government to exhume Francisco Franco's remains from the Valle de los Caídos.
Two weeks after Elon Musk expressed his intentions of making Tesla, Inc. private, he and the company's board announce that the company will remain publicly listed.
A magnitude 6.0 earthquake strikes the western Iranian province of Kermanshah, killing at least two people and injuring more than 200 others.
The Ministry of Justice of the United Kingdom announces that divorce laws in England and Wales will be altered to allow for "no fault" divorces.
A South Korean man is diagnosed with the potentially deadly MERS virus and is being treated at a hospital in Seoul, the first such case in three years.
Iranian Kurdish shopkeepers begin a region-wide strike against the executions of Kurdish activists and the bombing of opposition parties in Koya in the neighboring Iraqi Kurdistan Region.
Archaeologists discover a centuries-old shipwreck near the Portugal coast of Cascais.
American singer Taylor Swift wins four trophies, including Artist of the Year, and holds 23 American Music Awards, beating Whitney Houston.
Kepler 159d, a exoplanet with the same size as Saturn, is discovered by University of Western Ontario student Chris Fox and professor Paul Wiegert.
Cobalt Air suddenly announces its dissolution, cancelling all future operations and leaving many passengers stranded in Cyprus.
Authorities arrest eight men after a gang rape in Freiburg, Germany on 14 October, with police seeking more men.
Research published in JAMA Internal Medicine describes that mothers should wait at least a year between giving birth and getting pregnant again to reduce health risks to mother and baby.
Denmark suspends future weapons export licenses to Saudi Arabia in response to the killing of Jamal Khashoggi and the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen.
UEFA confirms that a new annual European football club competition called UEFA Europa League 2 will be introduced in 2021.
The deputy governor of Sweden's central bank, the Riksbank, says that the country is likely to become a cashless society within the next three to five years.
A beaver is seen in Northern Italy on camera, a species that has not been seen in the country since 1471.
Carlos Ghosn, formerly the chairman of Nissan, is arrested again on suspicion of shifting personal losses to the company.
U.S. President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump make an unannounced post-Christmas visit to troops at the Al Asad Airbase in Iraq, their first visit to a combat zone since taking office.
After a 56-day trek, British Army captain Lou Rudd becomes the second person to cross Antarctica alone and unaided, over two decades after the first solo crossing by Norwegian Børge Ousland.
Yemen's Shiite rebels say they have given control of the port of Hodeida to the coast guard and local administrators.
South Korean media reports that North Korean officials are expected to visit the United States to discuss a second summit between the two countries at an unspecified date.
The death toll from floods and landslides in South Sulawesi, Indonesia, rises to 68, while six people are still missing.
Pacific Gas and Electric Company files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy for its recent roles in the California wildfires.
A bug in Apple Inc's FaceTime software is reported to have allowed users to spy on other devices.
The Associated Press and Snopes say they are no longer providing fact-checking services for Facebook.
A car bomb kills 11 people and injures 10 others in an attack on a mall in Mogadishu, Somalia.
Several homes have been damaged in an uncontrolled bushfire near the New Zealand city of Nelson.
NASA scientists report the MarCO satellites, two CubeSats in deep space, have lost contact with Planet Earth.
Two Long Island Rail Road trains collide into a car in Westbury, New York, United States, killing all three occupants in the car.
Joe Percoco, former aide to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, is denied bail and is expected to start his six-year prison term for bribery.
US-backed Syrian forces resume their offensive on the final enclave controlled by ISIL in Syria at Baghuz.
The second President of Kazakhstan, Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, is sworn into office, after the resignation of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Elvis Luciano of the Toronto Blue Jays becomes the first person born in the 2000s to play in a Major League Baseball game.
David Saint-Jacques becomes the fourth Canadian astronaut to take part in a spacewalk and the first in 12 years as he begins a roughly seven-hour mission.
Debenhams, one of the largest department stores in the United Kingdom which employs 25,000 people, collapses into administration.
The last known female Yangtze giant softshell turtle, the world's largest species of freshwater turtle and one of the most endangered species on the planet, dies at Suzhou Zoo in China.
Two people are dead, and two others were wounded in a drive-by shooting outside a nightclub in Melbourne, Australia.
Tiger Woods wins the Masters Tournament in Augusta, Georgia, his first major golf win in 11 years and his first win at the Masters since 2005.
Apple Inc. and Google remove TikTok from their app stores in India after a high court in Madras ruled the app could expose children to sexual content and cyberbullying.
John William King is executed by lethal injection by the state of Texas, 21 years after the murder of James Byrd Jr., for which he was sentenced.
The death toll in cyclone-hit northern Mozambique has risen to 38, as aid workers struggle to reach the worst-affected areas.
Efforts begin in Solomon Islands to refloat a ship after an oil spill in what the government says will be a "very difficult operation."
Germany and the Netherlands suspend military training mission in Iraq citing escalating tensions in the region with Iran.
Pope Francis urges ethnic Hungarians and Romanians to mend their differences toward a peaceful existence in one country.
Israel kills ten people in airstrikes conducted against Syrian military targets in the Golan Heights in response to two rockets fired at Mount Hermon late Saturday.
Riviera Beach, Florida, is paying $600,000 to a hacker who took over local government computers three weeks ago.
Japan's Defense Ministry says Russian Air Force bombers violated southern Japanese airspace, prompting Japan Air Self-Defense Force fighters to scramble and escort the planes out of the area.
Iranian Americans protest outside the State Department as tensions increase.
A ceremony is held at the former site of Germany’s Buchenwald concentration camp to remember people imprisoned there because they were thought to be gay.
Japan announced tightening of chemical exports to South Korea that are crucial for semiconductor industry.
A major holiday celebration and military parade is held in Washington, D.C., United States, by President Donald Trump to commemorate the Fourth of July/Independence Day.
Through Argentine Foreign Affairs Minister Jorge Faurie, the Lima Group say that "the use of force in Venezuela will be implemented when required".
The death toll of the heat wave in Japan rises to 57, while 18,347 others are hospitalized.
The Department of Health of the Philippines declares a national dengue epidemic in the country, as cases spike to 622 deaths.
California regulators announce a ban on chlorpyrifos, an organophosphate nerve agent used as a pesticide.
Walgreens and CVS ask customers not to bring guns into their stores in response to several deadly mass shootings last month.
The California State Senate approves Assembly Bill 5, a bill to regulate gig economy work, introducing a formal test to classify workers as independent contractors or employees.
Donald Trump says the U.S. military is "locked and loaded" after the attacks on its ally Saudi Arabia, but is awaiting confirmation from Riyadh on who launched the strikes before taking action.
Over 12 miles (19 km) of roads are closed for traffic in central London.
Doctors Without Borders alleges the World Health Organisation is rationing vaccines for Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo despite adequate resources.
Japan and South Korea fail to make progress toward resolution, but agree to continue dialogue.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports the number of deaths caused by vaping-associated pulmonary injury has risen to 27, with an additional 1,299 cases of non-fatal injuries.
In a men's football match attended by women supporters for the first time in decades, Iran beats Cambodia 14–0.
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed wins the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to make peace between Ethiopia and neighbouring Eritrea.
In golf, Tiger Woods wins the inaugural Zozo Championship in Japan by three shots over Hideki Matsuyama for his 82nd career PGA Tour title, tying him with Sam Snead atop the all-time list.
An archaeologist discovers a 25 m (82 ft)-wide ring cairn dating back to the Bronze Age near Tidenham, Gloucestershire.
The United States notifies the United Nations of its formal withdrawal from the Paris Agreement.
Five Malaysian men are sentenced to six months in jail, fined, and caned for "attempting gay sex".
The Supreme Court of India rules in favor of Hindus over a place of worship that has been the center of disputes between them and the Muslim community in the country.
An explosion at a fireworks factory in the town of Barcellona Pozzo di Gotto, Sicily, Italy, kills five people and injures two others.
The Shanghai police department says that Wang is a conman who was convicted for fraud in 2016 and is being investigated for another case of fraud since April 2019.
A Camair-Co plane is fired upon while attempting to land at Bamenda Airport, but the pilot manages to safely land the plane with no casualties reported.
Former President of Bolivia Evo Morales lands in Argentina after being granted asylum.
Despite the boycott attempt by Democratic Tsunami, El Clásico is played in Camp Nou, Barcelona, with important security measures.
Twitter bans almost 6,000 accounts, alleging that they were "amplifying messages favourable to Saudi authorities" in a Saudi state-backed coordination.
China announces the reduction of tariffs on 850 products and measures to open markets in several industries.
Canada's Chief of the Defence Staff General Jonathan Vance announces that some of its military personnel in Iraq will be moved to neighboring Kuwait over safety reasons.
Japan issues an arrest warrant for former Nissan Chairman Carlos Ghosn's wife Carole for allegedly lying during testimony.
The U.S. Department of the Interior halts its civilian drone program indefinitely out of concerns that China manufactured the fleet via the SZ DJI Technology Company for espionage.
Apple says it is helping authorities in the Pensacola shooting investigation but refuses to unlock their phones.
The Vatican appoints Francesca Di Giovanni undersecretary for multilateral affairs in the Secretariat of State, the first woman to hold a management position in this office.
The NFL's Oakland Raiders officially relocate to Las Vegas, and are now known as the Las Vegas Raiders.
COVID-19 pandemic in Spain The Ministry of Health of Spain confirms the first case of coronavirus in the country in La Gomera, Canary Islands, from a German tourist.
Winds gusting up to 100 miles per hour have been recorded over much of the United Kingdom and Ireland, causing widespread damage and disruption.
Israel blocks all Palestinian export of agricultural products from the occupied West Bank following Palestinian limitations on imports of Israeli cattle.
A court in Israel sentences Sheikh Raed Salah to 28 months in prison for "inciting to terror".
General Motors pulls out of right-hand drive markets, ending the Holden brand in Australia.
Lesotho PM Tom Thabane is granted sick leave until 27 February when he is due to appear in court for the murder of his former wife.
The Carnival of Aalst in Belgium goes ahead despite UNESCO withdrawing its recognition of the event as a Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity because of Jewish caricatures.
A 300-bed isolation ward has been set up in Islamabad for Chinese citizens returning to Pakistan after vacations.
Former Santo Domingo mayor Roberto Salcedo Sr. resigns from the government and the Dominican Liberation Party.
The Committee on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations condemns the government of the Cook Islands for criminalizing homosexual sex.
Astronomers discover 139 new "minor planets" in the Solar System that are beyond the orbit of Neptune, which helps boost odds of finding Planet Nine.
Fans attend the Vive Latino festival in Mexico City despite coronavirus concerns.
The Jerusalem Islamic Waqf announces the closure of the Al-Aqsa Mosque and Dome of the Rock to upend contamination of the holy sites from COVID-19.
British textile design company Laura Ashley plc collapses into administration, saying the coronavirus has had a "significant impact on trading".
Yonhap News Agency reports that North Korea has fired two projectiles from Pyongan Province into the Sea of Japan.
The Russian military sends medical help and disinfection tools to Italy to battle the coronavirus.
64 Ethiopian illegal immigrants are found dead and 14 alive inside a cargo container on a lorry in Tete Province, Mozambique, apparently having died of asphyxiation.
Fiji declares a 30-day state of natural disaster in areas affected by Cyclone Harold.
Swedish auto manufacturer Volvo Cars resumes full production at its plant in Torslanda, Sweden, which had been shut down due to the COVID-19 pandemic since March 26, 2020.
The Indian Council of Medical Research advises all states to suspend using COVID-19 rapid test kits for two days, after some kits were found to be faulty.
Microsoft announces a $1.5 billion investment in Italy, as part of its expansion of cloud computing services around the world.
COVID-19 pandemic in the United States COVID-19 pandemic in New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy announces that their beaches will reopen for Memorial Day, but with restrictions.
COVID-19 pandemic in Madagascar Madagascar reports its first death from COVID-19; that of a 57-year-old medical worker who suffered from diabetes and high blood pressure.
NASCAR becomes the first major American sports league to resume its season since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States.
Protests against the government resume in Santiago due to food shortages in the poorest neighborhoods of the city created by the lockdown to control the COVID-19 pandemic.
During protests in Indianapolis, two people are shot dead and two others injured after unidentified assailants open fire against protesters.
Vatican Press Secretary announces that the last remaining patient has recovered and that there are zero active cases in the state.
Two firefighters are killed and four others are injured in a Baghjan gas well blowout fire in Assam, Northeast India.
In a Europe-wide operation, police penetrate EncroChat, a top-secret communications system used by criminals to sell drugs and plan attacks.
Indian Minister of Power R. K. Singh announces that India will halt the importation of US$2.8 billion worth of Chinese power equipment due to heightened tensions between the two nations.
Military medics are deployed to hospitals in Texas and California as cases surge.
Several Beirut port officials are placed under house arrest as an investigation starts into how 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate was left unsecured at a warehouse at the port for six years.
The MSC Grandiosa disembarks from Genoa, Italy, on a seven-day cruise in the Mediterranean Sea, the first major cruise ship to sail in the Sea in almost five months because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The daily number of new COVID-19 cases in France tops 3,000 for the first time since lockdown eased.
Antifa militants, far-right groups, and pro-Confederacy groups clash at Stone Mountain, near the city of Stone Mountain, Georgia.
The UK's national debt exceeds £2 trillion ($2.61tn) for the first time, according to data from the Office for National Statistics.
2020 NFL season The National Football League will require all coaches and staff in bench areas to wear masks.
Tropical Storm Nana is expected to strengthen into a strong tropical storm before it makes landfall in Belize tomorrow.
COVID-19 pandemic in Slovenia Slovenia registers its highest number of new cases since April 1, with 55 new cases reported in the last 24 hours.
Turkish Volkan Bozkır becomes the new President of the United Nations General Assembly.
2020 Stanley Cup Finals The Tampa Bay Lightning win the Stanley Cup for the first time since 2004 following their game 6 victory against the Dallas Stars.
The U.S. Department of Justice announces the seizure of 92 domain names believed to be used by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps to "spread pro-Iranian disinformation".
Multiple skeletons of Oksoko avarsan are discovered in the Gobi Desert in Mongolia.
Rwanda legalizes the production of medical cannabis for export, but the Health Ministry states that cannabis consumption of any kind in the country will remain illegal.
The Gambia announces that they have submitted a lawsuit against Myanmar for their role in the Rohingya genocide at the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
The Greek Navy's mine countermeasures vessel HS Kallisto is cut in two in a collision with a container ship.
FIFA announces that the President Gianni Infantino tests positive for COVID-19.
The Czech Police Forces announce that they will carry out random border checks with Austria as a preventive measure against terrorism.
Baby Shark Dance, produced by Pinkfong, surpasses "Despacito" as the most-viewed video on YouTube.
The Egyptian Football Association announces that Liverpool forward Mohamed Salah has tested positive for COVID-19 shortly before Egypt's 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match against Togo.
Kosovo's parliament unanimously approves deploying the Kosovo Security Force on international peacekeeping missions, following a formal request by the United States Central Command.
Twitter says that they have suspended over 70,000 accounts linked to the QAnon conspiracy since the Capitol storming.
United States Vice President Mike Pence congratulates incoming Vice President Kamala Harris, 73 days after the presidential election.
Polish biotechnology company Mabion S.A. signs an agreement with Novavax to begin commercial-scale production trials for Novavax's future vaccine.
YouTube suspends channels run by Myanmar's military and removes junta propaganda videos for "violating its community guidelines and terms of service".
Gujarat reports a record 12,553 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky invites his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin to a face-to-face meeting on the front line in the war-torn Donbas to negotiate an end to the conflict.
The United States Navy announces that it has seized a shipment of thousands of weapons in a stateless dhow on the Arabian Sea believed to be en-route to Yemen.
Eid al-Fitr, the "Feast of Breaking the Fast" that marks the end of the month-long dawn-to-sunset fasting of Ramadan, is celebrated in Istanbul's Hagia Sophia for the first time in 87 years.
Pro-Palestinian protesters storm the Queensway tunnel in the United Kingdom, disrupting traffic.
President Jovenel Moïse postpones the constitutional referendum, originally scheduled for June 27, to an unknown date citing rising COVID-19 cases in the country.
U.S. President Joe Biden signs a law that would make Juneteenth a federal holiday, thereby making it the first federal holiday since the 1983 establishment of Martin Luther King Jr. Day.
Germany bans the flag of Hamas after it was used during protests over the 2021 Israel–Palestine crisis.
The United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom impose sanctions against Belarus for last month's diverting of Ryanair Flight 4978, which led to the arrest of journalist Roman Protasevich.
The United Nations' World Meteorological Organization confirms that a record high temperature of 18.3 °C (64.9 °F) has been recorded in Antarctica at the Esperanza Base.
Two prison riots in Ecuador leave at least 18 people dead and dozens more injured.
The Plumas County Sheriff's Office orders mandatory evacuations in the area amid the spread of the Dixie Fire.
Cuba recognizes cryptocurrency as legal tender, becoming the second nation to do so after El Salvador.
India's economy rebounded at a record rate of 20.1% in the three months to the end of June even as a devastating second wave of COVID-19 hits the country.
The Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation announce a recommendation that half of million people with severe immunosuppressed will receiving a third dose of the COVID-19 jabs.
Protests broke out in front of hospitals across Greece to oppose compulsory vaccination for healthcare workers which takes effect today that risk dismissal of 10,000 unvaccinated workers.
Ethiopia Coffee and Betika Sports Betting Company have signed a five year sponsorship deal.
The sport betting company agreed to pay six million birr for this season.
The company logo will be printed on the right chest of the players’ kit.
Wondessen was provisionally suspended until February 1, 2024 after testing positive for Cathinone.
However, the athlete was also under investigation for various misdemeanors, disrupting the investigation process and attempting to defraud officials.
Loza, who has joined the Malta based Football Club, Birkirkara on a one year contract a couple of months ago, is making history once again pushing her dream and international football career a step further.
On December 11, 2019 many media outlets were busy reporting about the Ethiopian goal prodigy.
Africa’s first black woman to receive an Olympic gold medal, Derartu Tulu, has been elected to lead the Ethiopian athletics Federation on Thursday November 15, 2018.
In an emergency meeting, the Ethiopian Athletics Federation (EAF) elected Derartu to replace Haile Gebreselassie after he announced his resignation on Monday.
The government of Ethiopia awarded and honored the national athletics team that participated in the Tokyo 2020 Olympics in a grand ceremony held at the National Palace on Thursday in the presence of President Sahilework Zewde.
It is to be recalled that Ethiopian Tokyo 2020 Olympics team had finished the competition with 4 medals including one gold medal.
Ethiopian female athletes have won Berlin Marathon with Gold, Silver and Bronze medals.
This year’s edition of the Great Ethiopian Run has seen participation of more than 44,000 runners; and the event has grown to become a major street festival attracting more and more locals and tourists, every year.
The Great Ethiopian Run was launched in 2001 by the initiative of the athletics icon Haile Gebreselassie and so far it has held 17 streets runs in Addis Ababa and other towns.
AACF president, Rezene Beyene, said that the annual tournament will be called the Coca-Cola Addis Ababa Cycling Tournament.
“This is a great inspiration for the cyclists of Addis who are in desperate need of materials and other tools to enhance their capacity,” Rezene said.
Three-time Olympic champion Kenenisa Bekele, who finished third at this year’s London Marathon, has been named as a reserve, along with world silver medallist Adhane Yemane and 2013 world silver medalist Lelisa Desisa.
Mare, who equaled her lifetime best of 2:19:52 when winning last year’s Xiamen Marathon, is joined on the women’s team by two-time Berlin Marathon champion Aberu Kebede and three-time Dubai Marathon winner Aselefech Mergia.
Gianni Infantino, the newly-elected president of the world football's governing body, FIFA, visited Ethiopia this week.
During his visit, Infantino met with a delegation of the Ethiopian Football Federation led by Juneydi Basha, its president.
The movie is about a young man and his childhood sweetheart who is married.
Explaining about this Moges said: "There is this young man who is in love with his childhood sweetheart; the two young lovers decide to run away together but soon they were caught by her husband.
So neighbors stall the ensuing fight and an elder bind together the two men’s cloths, symbolically chaining them together and tells them they must travel to the capital to stand trial in the queen’s court.”
Simet film tells a historical story set in the momentous Zemene Mesafint period.
Brothers Mesfin and Endalk compete for their father’s throne in Gondar.
Murder and betray abound with the kingdom battling with neighboring kingdoms Gojam and Shoa.
While the king of Gondar decides who will succeed him and make peace within the divided country, the son, Endalk, is rightly suspicious that his younger brother Mesfin is the favorite and likely successor.
Fanuel Leul, 22, a graphic designer and illustrator who has been a big fan of comic books, says Jember is a great start and looks forward to other Ethiopia-inspired comics making their way to bookshelves.
Comic books are increasingly becoming a popular medium for visual storytelling and many young digital artists are venturing into the field.
Fanuel, who graduated from Alle School of Addis Fine Art and Design, is himself working on his own comic called Qedamawi, studying Ethiopian history and showcasing the country as the ‘land of the brave’.
The social media pages of Qedamawi feature Ethiopian patriots such as Emperor Menelik, Ras Alula and those that fought the Adwa war reimagined as superheroes.
He was known for his instrumental version of shellela, a genre of traditional Ethiopian vocal music sung by warriors before going into battle.
He appeared onstage in a warrior's animal-skin tunic and lion's mane headdress.
He continued to refine his instrumental shellela style, recording an entire album in 1970, Negus of Ethiopian Sax, which was later released as part of the Ethiopiques CD collection.
Hermon Haily’s Price of Love will be featured at the Lincoln Center this week at the New York African Film Festival as well as Director Yared Zeleke’s award winning drama Lamb: Red Leaves by Bazi Gere starring Debebe Eshetu; Afripedia X New York by Ethiopian and Eritrean filmmakers Teddy Goitom and Senay Berhe of Sweden; and the Dance of King David by Axel Baumann exploring the Ark of covenant.
The Dance of King David is a documentary film about the history and the contemporary worship of the Ark.
The legendary Ethiopian singer Alemayehu Eshete has been laid to rest at St. Trinity Cathedral, Addis Ababa with a massive funeral ceremony attended by many.
Families and fans of the artist, government officials, religious leaders and thousands of Ethiopians from the capital and several places of the country have attended the funeral service at the historical cathedral.
Betty G also performed Yamlu Mola’s “Sin Jaalada” and ‘Hagere’ at the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize Ceremony in Oslo.
Prior to becoming a Goodwill Ambassador, Betty G served as UNHCR’s High Profile Supporter and visited a number of refugee camps in Ethiopia hosting South Sudanese, Eritrean and Somali refugees, according to a statement issued by UNHCR.
The actress has performed in stages and played in numerous Amharic movies over the last 42 years especially representing unforgettable mothers’ characters.
She has worked as an actress, dancer and makeup artist in the infamous National Theatre, the oldest in its kind in the country.
Hub of Africa, with the support of Vogue Talents and the Italian Embassy in Addis Ababa will showcase eight visiting designers and six established Ethiopian designers who have showcased their designs on global catwalks from October.
In addition, six upcoming Ethiopian designers together with other upcoming designers from the continent will display their designs.
As entertainment consumption becomes increasingly visual, artists are struggling to keep up with the audience demand. The audience is leading the market.
According to Samson, artists must wake up and manage their own YouTube channels.
Many in the industry agree with that.
Art contributes tremendously in raising morale during times of war.
Speaking about the show’s aims, Desta said: “The show aims to incorporate performances that will both give the troops alertness and the motivation needed to stand steadfast for the unity of the country.”
The performances, like so many that came before them, will have themes of patriotism.
Schools all over the country have closed their doors in response to COVID-19 pandemic, leaving parents and caregivers scrambling to find daily activities for their children.
Before that, when things were normal, an activity that became commonplace among kids of all ages was spending their weekends at game zones.
The city of Axum, in the Tigray Regional State with its magnificent obelisk overshadowing a city in need of direction and support, the historic city, despite its historical worth is still a hidden treasure of Ethiopia that has not received the respect it rightly deserves.
A society rich with ancient sites, a population that is still young – Axum is a shock.
The place has very few visible tourists coming to its shores.
Head of the bureau, Gebremichael Meles, said that efforts to register Ashenda as an intangible world heritage is getting momentum.
He noted that officials of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) were at Mekelle last year.
The 14th National Flag day is observed in all corners of Ethiopia starting early in the morning today.
The day was marked under the theme: “ New Beginning with Full Sovereignty,” at the House of Peoples’ Representatives.
“This year’s Gondar Epiphany is colorful with increasing number of foreign tourists and Ethiopian-born citizens shown an increase appetite for coming,” said Sertsefire Sibhat, Tourism Ethiopia Deputy Director.
He said that the government has given due attention to the tourism sector in a bid to increase revenue by creating conducive situation for sector actors including tour operators.
Genet is a painter, a collage artist and a printmaker, who creates her own paper from natural fibers including teff.
She graduated from Addis Ababa University Ale School of Fine Arts and Design in 1998.
The 122th Adwa Victory was commemorated yesterday at National Theatre with different programs that attracted officials and veteran patriots.
Ethiopians regardless of different backgrounds, and from far or near together marched to Adwa, where they crushed aggressor Italian forces.
The Ethiopian Catholic Church Cardinal Berhaneyesus C.M., on his part said that the faithful should commemorate and celebrate the holiday with the essence of helping, caring and loving for the well being of others' lives.
The Cardinal also noted that authorities of the government should exercise their leadership in satisfying public interests and ensure good governance in their deep reform journey.
The efforts being made to inscribe the Gada system on UNESCO’s world heritage list are yielding positive results, said the Oromia Regional State Culture and Tourism Bureau.
The Gada system is an indigenous democratic and socio-political system of the Oromo people.
The European Parliament adopted a resolution that demands an “immediate cessation of hostilities by all parties” and calls for an Ethiopian-led inclusive national dialogue including representatives from Tigray, Amhara, Benishangul-Gumuz, Afar, Oromia, Sidama, Somali, Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples’ Region (SNNPR), and Gambella to find a lasting solution to the ongoing crisis in the country, The Reporter learnt.
The Parliament also called on its Member States “to halt exports of arms and surveillance technology to Ethiopia that are being used to facilitate attacks on civilians and perpetrate human rights violations,” the resolution reads.
The Ethiopian national elections scheduled for August, 2020 were postponed due to the threat posed by the Coronavirus pandemic.
The postponement was a controversial move for Ethiopian political parties, especially the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) which held regional elections unilaterally in defiance of the federal government’s decision to postpone the election.
According to a report from Fana Broadcasting Corporation, Gedu on his part briefed Pompeo stating “Ethiopia’s rationale behind building GERD which stood on the principles of fair and reasonable utilization of its water resources.”
In related news, speaker of the House of Peoples’ Representatives of Ethiopia, Tagesse Chafo slammed the recent resolution by the Arab league over the GERD.
Five months after Ethiopia and Eritrea officially ended a two-decade old stalemate and somewhat restored normalcy in relations, President Sahle-work Zewde received a credentials letter of the newly appointed Eritrean head of mission, Semere Russom at the National Palace on Thursday.
Semere came to Ethiopia four months ago following the restored relations with the signing of a joint declaration of Peace and Friendship agreement in Asmara last July.
It is to be recalled that, in October 2017, Prime Minister Hailemariam Dessalegn, in his address to the House of Peoples’ Representatives (HPR), said that his administration has accepted the resignation of Bereket.
Bereket was serving as deputy head of Policy Studies and Research Centre, an institution set up to aid the PM in high-level policy issues.
Yeshiwas Assefa, the newly elected president of Semayawi (Blue) Party, who assumed the leadership at the general assembly held at the headquarters of the All Ethiopian Union Party (AEUP) a few weeks ago, has announced the establishment of a new executive committee during the National Council meeting that was held last Saturday.
The National Council endorsed the nomination of the executive committee the president presented at the same meeting
The Federal High Court fifteen criminal bench has postponed its ruling on corruption charges involving former intelligence Chief Woldesilassie Woldemichael.
The criminal bench was set to rule on whether charges filed by prosecutors of Federal Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission should be amended or not.
A Disapora Consultant Council which will strengthen ties between Ethiopians and foreign national of Ethiopian origin and the government will be formed, the director further noted.
He added that Diaspora National Council and Diaspora Affairs Coordination Offices will be formed at national and regional levels, respectively.
The Ethiopian Roads Authority announced on Tuesday that the construction of a highway linking Ethiopia with neighboring Sudan had been completed and was open now for traffic.
The 100km-long road, stretching from Ethiopia’s Asosa town to Sudan’s Kumruk (Kormuk), will enhance trade relations as well as social ties between the two countries.
President Girma said in particular the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, road, railway, telecommunication, electric power, potable water and irrigation development are the projects given priority in this fiscal year.
In his speech made here on Monday while opening the Joint Session of the two Houses, President Girma said the government will move forward by formulating good governance and public initiation for development to execute the various development programs.
According to Samuel, the dam with a big reservoir will regulate a steady flow of water in the river and reduce risky floods that have occasionally been killing people, causing massive displacement, and loss of properties in Sudan.
In Sudan, heavy rains and flooding during August and September 2021 have, for instance, affected more than 314,000 people.
He further remarked that the milestones achieved in the planning and implementation of the annual initiative need to be duplicated in various sectors, facilitating Ethiopia’s inevitable prosperity.
The PM congratulated all Ethiopians in all corners of the country for finalizing a successful Green Legacy season this year with 6.7 billion seedlings planted, surpassing the set target.
According to the press release sent to ENA, heavy to very heavy rainfall (top 10 to 5 percent on record) is expected in regions of Al Qadarif and Sennar in Sudan, Gash-Barka and Debu in Eritrea, and parts of Tigray, western Amhara, and southern Afar.
It added that total rainfall above 100mm is forecasted in these regions.
In delivering opening remarks, State Minister H.E. Ambassador Redwan Hussien said the workshop demonstrates Ethiopia’s unwavering determination to be at the forefront of climate change issues in the international arena.
Noting the recurrent drought, flooding, and locust invasions in the Horn of Africa, Ambassador Redwan said, it is vital that we give due attention to climate diplomacy to enhance support to mitigation and adaptation interventions at the grassroots level.
The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change said that it has been working to bring the consultants and organization operating in the country in one association.
According to the Ministry, once consultants and organization working on the environmental impact assessment associated in one entity, it would be so easy from Ministry to communicate and update them with rules and regulations they have to abide by while operating in the country.
At the opening ceremony, Minister of Environment and Forestry Belete Tafere said strong institutional work was necessary to benefit from forest resources and the institute would play a pivotal role in sustaining the continued building of the green economy for which the country has gained recognition internationally.
The institute would in particular help to reduce the widespread deforestation and enhance the utilization of forests, the minister added.
In 1997 MIDROC Gold acquired the Legadembi open pit gold mine for 172 million USD through privatization process.
Since 1998 MIDROC has been mining gold and silver from the gold mine and export the bulk of its product to Switzerland.
The company built the first underground mining in Ethiopia and undertook a vast exploration work in Sakaro and Metekel license area and discovered commercial primary gold deposits.
Initiated by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed (PhD) in a bid to combat climate change and environmental degradation, it is part of the six billion seedlings planned to be planted in Ethiopia and neighboring countries in the coming rainy season.
The government seeks to plant 20 billion seedlings by 2024, to help build a green climate-resilient economy.
Youths who are tasked to control effects of environmental hazards are expected to investigate factors related to noise pollution, liquid and solid waste effluences, among others and bring recommendations to address the problems accordingly, Sisay said.
According to the Commissioner, the youths are to be organized under enterprises and deployed to their respective Woredas in the capital.
During a national discussion forum on the Environment, Forest and Climate Change Sector Commission Commissioner Prof. Fekadu Beyene said that the country has achieved remarkable successes in terms of mitigating and responding to the effects of climate change.
EPA quoted Prof. Fekadu Beyene saying “The country’s forest cover has hit 17.2 percent.
ohn O’Connor, Director of African Operations at IOHK, expressed his eagerness to harness Ethiopia’s greatest attributes and discover solutions using technology of lower cost, more efficiency and functionality, leapfrogging the traditional usage of technology.
He said he was excited to meet enthusiastic and forward thinking public officials at MoST and hopes to establish Ethiopia as the tech leader in the continent.
Zerfie Mersha, environmental technology director with LIDI, told The Reporter that the acceptable amount of chrome in water waste is 2 mg per liter but most Ethiopian tanneries discharge high concentration of chrome as high as more than 90 mg of chrome per liter.
Zerfei said the chrome is toxic to plants, aquatic plants and fish.
Zerfie said the new technology avoids the use of water, salt and sulfuric acid and formic acid.
“We are introducing the technology to local tanneries and we highly encourage them to apply it but we cannot force them to use it,” she told The Reporter.
“Egypt should not worry about the effect of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) and its potential impact on the flow of the river downstream,” Hailemichael explains.
“Since it would be possible to drink from sea water in the near future thanks mainly to the salt being separated from the water by using technology.”
Manufactured by Tomizawa & Co. Ltd, a small Japanese company, AdPower is a unique technology developed twenty years ago, Toru Tomizawa, President, told The Reporter on Thursday, while briefing reporters about the product.
According to Tomizawa, ADPower is made of special pigments, special alloy (that mainly is composed of copper) and fiber glass which help vehicles’ engines neutralize and contain CO2 emissions and in turn supplies purified oxygen via discharging electrons.
Andualem Borecha Lemecha is a founder, chief designer and product engineer at Eduance, and EduTech startup that provides personalized e-learning and adaptive teaching technology.
The views expressed in the article do not necessarily reflect the views of The Reporter.
Ethio Telecom CEO Frehiwot Tamiru acknowledged the employees of the company who participated in the implementation of the new technology at various levels and pointed out that effective work has been done.
Noting the technology is now a matter of existence said, adding “We have shown that it is possible to start and finish with the help of coordination and good leadership.”
Addressing the Webinar, Ethiopia’s Ambassador to the U.S. Fistum Arega said the government of Ethiopia is undertaking various legal amendments with the view to create conducive business environment and attract foreign investors.
According to him, amendment is made on Trade Law besides drafting investment proclamation to encourage the private sector.
“As a company that creates digital journeys for our customers, we have the skills and capabilities to pay it forward to the communities that need us the most.
The past year has resulted in just about everything going remote, and our ability to accelerate digital inclusion has become our number one focus.”
Kassahun noted that the policy would enable the country to conquer its challenges as biotechnology plays important role in enhancing productivity, reducing climate change, improving health, and bringing about economic growth.
“I believe we will have micro and small-scale enterprises that can be produce electronics, software, IT and automotive electronics.
There will be also small and medium scale manufacturing companies that have the capacity to produce electronics machines in this country,” Getahun stated.
Speaking at the 2016 Samsung Africa Forum, Abey Tau, Corporate Citizenship and Public Affairs Manager, said: “As a global citizen, we felt it was important to use our technology to give back to society.
We do this in four ways: by creating new learning opportunities so that young people can enjoy access to better education; by using our technical expertise to develop and provide access to new healthcare solutions; by supporting youth employment through vocational training and skills development; and by reducing our impact on the environment.”
In a bid to boost employment opportunities for Ethiopian nationals, the Ministry of Health as well as the Job Creation Commission (JCC) of Ethiopia has signed a trilateral MoU with the UAE-based Response Plus Holdings PJSC.
The signing ceremony took place during the Ethiopian Minister of Health Dr. Lia Tadesse’s visit to Abu Dhabi last week.
Coronavirus cases in Ethiopia have reached 123,145 since the first Coronavirus outbreak in the country reported in March 2020, according to the Ministry of Health.
To date some 1,785,132 sample tests have been conducted, 109,846 COVID-19 patients recovered and 231 patients are currently in severe condition.
Indian Embassy to Ethiopia in collaboration with Indian community in Addis Abeba marked today the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi in the capital at Gandhi Memorial Hospital.
On the occasion, Indian Ambassador to Ethiopia, Anurag Srivastava said “we decided to make this year’s celebration at the very special and historic venue of Gandhi memorial Hospital, where Indian communities and Ethiopians contributed to build the hospital.”
Ethiopia has established a high level national taskforce to prevent Ebola virus that has occurred in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Briefing journalists, Public Health Institute Director-General Dr. Eba Abate said similar taskforces formed in regions are making preparations to prevent the virus.
WHO Director-General Tedros will attend the 32nd Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union.
During his stay in Ethiopia, he will also attend Food Safety Conference organized by the African Union, World Health Organization and World Food Program that will begin next Tuesday.
Malaria Program Coordinator with the Ministry, Hiwot Solomon, told WIC that various prevention mechanisms are implemented in area vulnerable to the pandemic during peak periods of spread.
More than 30 million anti-mosquito nets are distributed to such areas since last year, she noted.
Ethiopia’s health care service has been proved successful in not only by making primary health care service accessible but also by improving quality of service from time to time.
The policy direction geared toward prevention has also been successful in engaging the public at large, said Yibeltal.
The Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Health and the National tuberclosis (TB) Program in collaboration with WHO and partners conducted a workshop from December 17 to 18, 2018 to launch a new guideline for reaching missed tuberculosis cases.
In her opening remark, Dr Lia Tadesse, State Minister of Health, noted that TB is one of the priority diseases closely supported in the Ministry of Health and the MoH continues to work very closely with partners, private sectors, civic societies, universities and other important stakeholders in order to identify missed TB cases, abort TB transmission to familiies, and public as well.
USAID’s Health Financing Improvement Program builds upon the successes of earlier investments like USAID’s community-based health insurance initiative, which currently provides medical coverage to nearly 20 million Ethiopians nationwide.
Over the next five years, the new program will focus on mobilizing increased domestic resources and streamlining medical insurance schemes to expand coverage to millions more people.
The project will also work with public and private healthcare providers to better utilize resources and revenues to finance their services.
The Ethiopian delegation led by the Health Minister, Dr Amir Aman, is attending the 72nd international health forum commenced today in Geneva.
The delegation is expected to submit two proposals that Ethiopia has prepared to be discussed and decided up on the meeting.
A road run with the aim of promoting the tourism of Bale, in Oromia, has been held in the town of Bale Robe.
Noting the varied tourist attractions of Bale, Mayor of Bale Robe, Gezahegn Dejene, says, apart from promoting tourism, the event will have a role in enhancing other commercial activities.
Dubai Marathon champion Tirfi Tsegaye, who clocked a world-leading 2:19:41 earlier this year, and Tigist Tufa, who won the 2015 London Marathon and finished second in this year’s race, are the reserves for the women’s team.
Ethiopian long distance running legend, Haile Gebrselassie, will be running a different race—he will be running for the presidency of the Ethiopian Athletics Federation (EAF).
The election will be held on tomorrow in Addis Ababa. Haile will be representing Addis Ababa competing with other officials from regional states.
Ethiopia have appointed former Adama City FC coach Ashenafi Bekele as the new man in charge of the men’s national team.
His appointment was announced this week at Intercontinental Addis.
The 2018 Total CAF Women’s African Cup of Nations will be held in Ghana from November 17 to December 1, 2018.
The tournament also doubles as the African qualifiers to the 2019 Women FIFA World cup.
The top three teams will qualify for the World Cup in France.
Nigeria is the defending champion.
The 2017/18 Ethiopian Premier League (EPL) defending champions, Jimma Aba Jiffar, is all set to use online mobile system for its day to day activities which enables fans get relevant information regarding the club.
The service will help to easily exchange updated live scores, fans registration, monthly payments and allowing voting for best player’s award.
The 70th edition of FIFA congress, scheduled to be held in Addis Ababa, has been rescheduled due to coronavirus (COVID-19) fears.
FIFA stated that, on account of the spread of COVID-19, numerous international bodies and public bodies have advised against the organization of international events.
President of the Ethiopian Football Federation, Esayas Jira, has been elected as vice president of the Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA).
He was elected to serve as vice president for the coming four years at the Associations’ General Assembly held in Kampala, Uganda today.
Mekelle November 29/2018 A cycling tournament that starts from Mekelle and extends to Asmara and Mitswa in Eritrea will begin tomorrow, according to Tigray Region Youth and Sports Affairs Bureau.
The aim of the tournament is to strengthen the people-to-people relations between the peoples of Ethiopia and Eritrea, it said.
Seifu Tura Abdiwak of Ethiopia and Ruth Chepngetich of Kenya won Sunday in the return of the Chicago Marathon, which was scrapped last year amid the coronavirus pandemic.
Abdiwak, who placed sixth in the Chicago race in 2019, finished in 2 hours, 6 minutes, 12 seconds.
Written and directed by Moges Tafesse, Quragnaye addresses the question: “How far would you take punishment into your own hands or wait for the system to levy the appropriate punishment?”.
The story takes place in Ankober, an old town located 174kms north of Addis Ababa.
The most charming Meskerem Abera that plays the love interest of Mesfin and daughter of the king of Gojam brightens the tension brought on by Endalk.
The accents of the actors do not strictly abide by their character’s locales and the sparsely decorated palace grounds beg for more attention to set dressing.
Ethiopian artist Abby Lakew announced at a press conference arranged by her management company on Tuesday at Sapphire Hotel that she will be donating all proceeds from her latest album to charity.
‘Mekedonia Home for the Elderly and Mentally Disabled’ is to be the recipient of the gesture from the star.
The resulting visual data serves as the basis for the painting, mixed media, kinetic and screen-print that would define the four quadrants on the two dimensional surface of the stretched canvases, papers and panels.”
Abraham, a talented artist, holds both an MFA degree in Studio Art and BFA (Cum Laude) majoring in Graphic Design, Painting, and Drawing from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, as well as an AA degree from Truckee Meadows community college. (Tadias)
The Swedish pop, jazz and soul sensation, Kristin Amparo, is scheduled to perform on June 13 at African Jazz Village.
Amparo is a performer and composer from Stockholm who has been a fulltime musician for more than a decade.
At least seven Ethiopian films are set to screen in NYC in May 2016 as part of the New York African Film Festival and the 13th Annual Sheba Film Festival.
A graduate of Alle School of Fine Arts and Design, Addis Ababa University, Daniel Asfaw's painting has always been inspired by the experience of life.
His meeting with his teacher and mentor, Tadesse Mesfin, has also been a decisive one that he tamed his growth obtaining the right mentorship to devote his entire life to art.
Design Week Addis Ababa (DWAA), a weeklong celebration of innovation and creativity, which was launched on January 14, will close today.
Design Week Addis Ababa is an internationally recognized design and innovation event in Ethiopia.
According to Beserat Debebe, creator and writer of the comic, Jember is a character inspired by the life and experiences of young residents in Addis Ababa.
Aman’s creation was informed by his friends’ and relatives’ job seeking experiences in the city.
“He reflects the story of those that are in the transition period between their college life and adulthood. Cities like Addis typically have a high youth unemployment rate. This often leads to a feeling of disappointment and hopelessness for a lot of ambitious young Ethiopians.”
Sewit disagrees with this statement.
“Supply creates its own demand. People like me have given up on shopping. Even the mannequins outside the stores aren’t representative.”
The experience can be irritating for the plus size/curvy/full-figured/voluptuous woman.
Ethio Agri-CEFT, member of Midroc Investment Group, revealed preparations to install the largest edible oil processing complex in the country.
Activities to prepare land on the outskirts of Addis Ababa started with the total investment expected to cost over USD one billion.
In a meeting held late on Friday, the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MoTI) consulted business owners and managers from the Tigray region on ways of addressing the problems companies faced during the operation.
Officials of the Ministry noted that 93 giant enterprises and nearly 6700 small and medium enterprises are found in the region, and that a task force has been established to conduct a survey and investigate the cost of damages to reinvigorate factories into normal production.
Ethiopia and France signed a military cooperation accord in March 2019 during President Emmanuel Macron’s visit to Addis Ababa.
The deal includes helping the landlocked nation build a navy.
The accord also provides for air cooperation, joint operations and opportunities for training and equipment purchases.
Three international oil trading firms bidding to supply fuel to the Ethiopian Petroleum Supply Enterprise (EPSE) in the 2019 fiscal year.
Last September EPSE has floated a tender inviting international oil trading companies for the supply of fuel to be delivered as of January 2019.
It is recalled that Ethio Telecom has recently announced the launching of 4G LTE service in 92 towns nationwide and in the capital, Addis Ababa as phase-I 4G LTE service expansion strategic plan for the 2020/21 budget year.
Ethio Telecom also promised to expand the service in the remaining towns of the country as we have been immensely working on to finalize phase -Il network upgrading and expansion to meet the ever-growing data demands of customers.
Ethiopia has earned $1.33 billion from exports during the past five months, attaining 94% of the $1.41 billion target.
The revenue increased by $224.5 million or 20% compared to the same period last year, according to the Ministry of Trade and Industry.
The Saudi Arabian Government and business delegation led by Minister of State for African Affairs Ahmed bin Abdul Aziz Qattan arrived in Addis Ababa on Sunday.
In his opening remarks, Dr Aklilu Hailemichael, Ethiopia’s State Minister of Foreign Affairs, said such kinds of events are necessary to further cement the age-long and historical ties between the peoples of the two countries.
Ethiopian Sugar Corporation which was selected Chair of the International Council for 2018 at the last conference held in London 2017 made the announcement today.
Ethiopian Sugar Corporation Communication Director Gashaw Aychiluhem told ENA that the nation will benefit from hosting the international conference.
Ethiopia and South Korea have signed an agreement that could enable to jointly work on issues tied with urban land development.
The agreement was signed between Solomon Kebede, Head of the Federal Urban Land and Land Related Issues Registration Agency, and his Korean counterpart Biki Chaw.
Everest Textile Co, which makes fabrics and garments, said two new plants in Ethiopia and the US are scheduled to start operations in the first half of this year.
The plant in Ethiopia is to manufacture garments for the company’s brand name customers from Europe, while the US facility is to supply knitted fabrics and garments to customers in the US, the firm said.
The Ethiopian Human Rights Council (EHRCo) called for legal and operational amendments for future elections based on its observation outcomes of the elections conducted on September 30, 2021.
According to a preliminary report issued by the Council on Thursday October 21, 2021 at Saphire Addis Hotel, irregularities were observed both in the elections and the Southwestern Peoples’ Region referendum.
Speaking to The Reporter, the Amhara regional state police commissioner, Abere Adamu reaffirmed the readiness of the regional police force to go into operation in Benishagul region if the federal government is busy handling other matters.
“When one regional state fails to protect the safety and security of citizens, the federal government is responsible to act,” said Abere, stressing the need for maintaining rule of law in the area where the killings are taking place.
The Houses of Peoples' Representatives (HPR) is expected to elect a new Supreme Court president to replace the outgoing Tegene Getaneh, who resigned from his post citing health problems that render him unable to carry out his duties.
Two weeks ago, House Speaker, Abadulla Gemeda told Members of Parliament that his office has received a letter from the Office of the Prime Minister stating that the Prime Minister Hailemariam has accepted Tegene’s letter of resignation.
“The Tana Forum is now recognized as the truly African Security Conference modeled on the Munich Security Conference.
It has the goal of convening peace stakeholders to discuss issues of peace and security in an informal and relaxed environment,” Tedros, who served the Forum as master of ceremony, said.
In his remarks after the signing agreement, Japanese Ambassador to Ethiopia Shinichi Saida commended the current geopolitical trends towards peaceful power transition taking shape in Africa.
“I believe I can say, now is a time of fundamental change in Africa.
Ethiopia experienced its first peaceful transition of power in its modern history, followed by South Africa and Zimbabwe”, Ambassador Saida added.
According to the UK Renaissance Dam Diaspora Participation Coordination Council, members of the Ethiopian community had already pledged close to one million birr which brings the total to about 3 millions birr.
The Council, comprising of Ethiopians from a variety of civic and development associations, religious groups, artist groups, professional associations, business organizations, renowned personalities, academics, youth and women associations and other pertinent groups, was launched on 8th October during its first meeting at the Ethiopian Embassy in London.
Speaking on the meeting held on the draft Diaspora Policy in Addis Ababa, Diaspora Affairs Director General with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Faisel Aliyi said inputs obtained in the discussion processes were included in the draft.
He said the draft Diaspora Policy is expected to be endorsed by the Parliament in April 2012. (ERTA)
EREC’s deputy project manager, Cai Qinhao, said his company is working to accomplish the project on schedule.
But he urged stakeholders to remove all public utility lines en route the rail track, specifically a major pipeline on the road from Hayahulet to Urael.
The Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Autority (AAWSA) has hired a contractor to relocate the pipeline by April 2013, according to ERC’s deputy CEO, Debo.
Some representatives from the warring factions in South Sudan have arrived in Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa.
They will soon begin negotiations as part of a regional effort to end the conflict, according to Dina Mufti, Ethiopia’s foreign ministry spokesman.
The Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) will regulate the water flow of Nile River and reduce flooding risks and sedimentation in downstream countries, Arba Minch University Water Resource Research Center Director Samuel Degalo said.
The director told ENA that the dam will benefit the downstream countries, especially Sudan, by regulating the water flow and sediments.
In an exclusive interview with ENA, Commissioner Yinager said the drought and civil unrests in some part of the country has not barred the economy from growing.
“When we look at the past two years GTP-II performance, expected and unexpected things have happened such as drought and unrest which were unexpected, but if the prevailing peaceful situation remains unchanged and we do more in the two and half years left, the planned economic growth will be achieved,” the Commissioner said.
Ethiopia has been taking “very strong engagement” on land restoration, AU Great Green Wall Initiative Coordinator Elvis Paul Tangem said.
“I think Ethiopia has done a lot,” he said, adding that some 15 million hectares of land have been under restoration in Ethiopia.
According to Wordy, “Ethiopia has the natural resources to generate all the clean energy it needs and to decouple its economy from the fluctuating prices and unsustainable nature of the oil-based economy.”
As one of the rapidly urbanizing countries, Ethiopia has identified the essentiality of implementing effective waste management to realize its green growth strategy, he pointed out.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and President Slahilework Zewudie today participated in cleaning-up campaign through sweeping their respective environments.
Last Friday Premier Abiy has called residents for clean-up campaign to keep their localities free from rubbish.
Tefera pointed out that substantial amount of land has been covered with watersheds, to protect flood, land degradation and soil erosion, which as a result increased agricultural productivity.
“At the onset, the works were not sustainable in solving the problems to the required extent due to lack of awareness and vastness of the water shade to be covered,” he said.
The premier highlighted in a statement posted on his Face-Book page on Sunday that with the launch of this year’s Green Legacy, “let us not think that the government is asking citizens to throw caution to the wind.”
Strictly adhering to prevention measures is critical he said, adding that, “we can also maintain productivity and meet our goals while observing these measures put in place.”
In a platform organized to promote carbon trading, Oromia Forest and Wild Animals Development Enterprise Director, Ararsa Regassa told ENA that comprehensive work is being undertaken to ensure the public benefit from natural resources.
He added that the project Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation, plus the sustainable management of forests, and the conservation and enhancement of forest carbon stocks (REDD+) has made significant impact in natural resource development and conservation.
Light rainfall less than 30mm is expected over parts of northern and southern Somalia, western Kenya, parts of western Rwanda, much of Uganda, eastern South Sudan, southern Sudan, and eastern Ethiopia.
On the other hand, dry conditions are expected in northern Sudan, eastern and northern Kenya, western and southern Tanzania.
EEFRI Director-General Abiyot Berhanu said the institute has been collecting tree seeds to recover deforested lands.
“To be one of the best institutes in Africa, EEFRI needs legal procedure, active involvement of the people and the concerned bodies as well as capital and human resources,” he added.
Ethiopia has encountered some 2,800 cyber-attack attempts during the last Ethiopian fiscal year (2020/21), according to the Director-General of Information Network Security Agency (INSA), Dr. Shumete Gizaw.
The Director-General made the remark at a ceremony organized to launch the month-long cyber security program under the title “Cyber Security Shared Responsibility, Let’s Know & Be Cautious”.
Nokia signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Addis Ababa Science and Technology University and Addis Ababa Institute of Technology in order to collaborate and provide high-level technical skills to students in line with rapidly changing market needs.
As part of the agreement, Nokia will work with the two universities to provide tailored training and coaching programs and share the latest technical and business practices in the ICT sector in line with global developments and market demands.
Sophia is quite a celebratory, attracting much attention as she travels the world But Getahun Mekuria, Ethiopia’s science and technology Minister, told BBC Amharic that Sophia would still appear at Saturday’s MCIT International Expo.
Getnet Asefa, the manager of Icog Labs – the engineering firm behind her Amharic programming, explained that Sophia was fixable and they would find alternative parts for her.
An Ethiopian-American Plant Breeder, Geneticist and Professor at Purdue University, Gebisa Ejeta (PhD) has received 5 million dollars from Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana State, USA to promote his contributions and achievements in sorghum breeding research.
The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has handed over the award to Gebisa.
The research of the Ethiopian award-winning researcher, Dr. Martha Zewdie was on regulatory T cells in pulmonary tuberculosis patients.
She told ENA that the research was part of her PhD work and basically looked at immune responses of patients and infected individuals in tuberculosis.
According to the Minister, Ethiopia set to have thousands of technology centered micro and small enterprises that could produce various technological products expected to join the global market.
Information Communication Technology Sector Director-General at the ministry, Abiyot Sinamo told ENA that the national strategy designed to digitalize key public services has been well underway and being implemented as per the plan.
According to him, 34 institutions are providing services using digital technologies.
Digital Transformation Program Director General at Ministry of Innovation and Technology, Dr. Abiyot Bayou said, “The grant will support our ministry in guiding and enabling digital reform under the EoDB Programme.”
He also stated that besides adding Bahirdar and Diredawa cities to the national business portal, the support will enable the ministry to facilitate the implementation of EoDB reform by allowing further digitalization and reform ownership of the project.
The National Veterinary Institute of Ethiopia is preparing to manufacture veterinary drugs to substitute imported drugs, an official said.
The Institute, the sole veterinary vaccine production center in Ethiopia, will start to produce drugs at the end of this year, Director General of the Institute Dr.Marta Yami told ENA.
AIC Deputy Director-General Taye Girma told ENA that the center which aims to become a national center of excellence by establishing AI policy and creating conducive ecosystem for the private and public sector is facing two major challenges in general.
According to him, almost all government institutions and private entities require AI applications to deliver effective services with the support of AI technology.
President of the Association, Meaza Kitaw, said the association is now providing integrated sexual and reproductive health services including maternal and child health, family planning, screening and treatment.
Fifty years ago the association was established with three members and now has 18,000 members.
Close to six million people have received reproductive health service only in 2015 alone, it was noted.
The Ministry of Health has announced that it is spraying anti-malaria chemicals in 160 Woredas in order to wipe out mosquito following the rainy season the country has been experiencing.
Ministry’s Malaria Programs Officer, Dereje Dilu, told Walta Information Center that over 916,000 kilograms of anti malaria chemicals and spraying materials have been distributed in 160 malaria prone Woredas of the country.
Out of the three hospitals, the referral hospital under construction in Gnignag has been completed only 75 percent of its construction phase so far according to the head of the regional health bureau, Oman Amelu (MDr.)
According to the head, the reason behind the delay is related to the fleeing the contactor from the area.
Red Crescent Society of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has provided the Ethiopian Health Ministry with 50 ambulances.
The ambulances worth 250 million Birr and seven of them are said to have arrived in Addis Ababa.
Some 200,000 residents of Addis Ababa living in extreme poverty are going to be provided with support in the second phase of the food security program which will start tomorrow.
In his media briefing today, Mayor Diriba Kuma said 200,000 citizens in 55 woredas of Addis Ababa will benefit from the program.
Following the outbreak of the fatal Novel Coronavirus – now renamed COVID-19 by the World Health Organization (WHO) – Ethiopian Airlines announced that it has stepped up passenger screening and aircraft disinfection process at the Addis Ababa Bole International Airport.
Officials of Ethiopian Airlines and Ethiopian Airports organized a tour for the local media on Thursday.
According to a letter issued by Tsigereda Kifle, deputy director of EPHI, HIV Kits including First Response HIV 1-2.0, Uni-Gold HIV, VIKIA HIV-1/2, Beijing Wanta HIV-1/2 are said to be under evaluation.
Beijing Wanti was registered by the Food, Medicine, Healthcare Administration and Control Authority on July 5, 2016 representing by a local company called GeZ Chemicals and Pharmaceutical PLC.
The United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the development arm of America’s Department of State has completed its seven-year-long strengthening of Human Resources for Healthcare projects in Ethiopia.
The Tewodros Ashenafi Foundation was established by founder and CEO of SouthWest Holdings Ltd.
The Reproductive Health Innovative Fund (RIF) project founded and being implemented by the Ethiopian Public Health Institute, is attaining encouraging fruits in various ways.
The Ethiopian Women’s U-20 national team is set take part in the CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup hosted by Uganda.
Ethiopia, Burundi, Eritrea, Djibouti, Tanzania and Uganda have been preparing for the tournament, which will take place from October 30 to November 9, 2021.
The well experienced Yalemzerf is the first woman in history to run a half marathon in under 65 minutes.
She ran the Northern Ireland’s Antrim Coast Half Marathon in 63: 43 at the end of August, and has been representing Ethiopia in various continental races particularly, half marathon races.
In this regard, the competition presents as an opportunity for athletes to perform at the highest level. The competition was scheduled for last year; however, the EAF had to postpone the race due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Similar to Marathon Competition Rankings, Road Running competitions are ranked in 3 different categories, namely: combined ranking of the Men's and Women's races, Men's Road running ranking and Women's Road Running ranking.
Match week eight of the Ethiopian Premier League (EPL) will feature across the country this weekend.
From the stand out fixtures, Fasil City will host Ethiopia Coffee while Welwalo Adigrat faces Hadiya Hosana and St. George play against Dire Dawa City.
In the first preliminary round, Mekele 70 suffered a 2-1 defeat with the only crucial away goal scored by Amanuel Gebremichael in the 81st minute.
With thousands of fans expected to show, the debutants in this year’s competition face a stern test in overturning the score and keeping a clean-sheet.
After returning home, the champions have continued to prepare for their second leg encounter in Mekele.
Meanwhile, the officials will undergo medical and physical tests besides theoretical and practical sessions under the supervision of experienced CAF instructors.
According to CAF’s statement, to be discussed are the amendments to the law of the game, which takes effect starting from June 1, 2019 and will be implemented during the tournament.
Elsewhere, Ethiopian cup winner Defense is set to face the Nigerian side Enugu Rangers in the preliminary return leg fixture on Wednesday in Addis Ababa stadium.
After the appointment of a new coach, Seyoum Kebede, the army side seems to be in a good run of form.
Defense has won its ninth cup in the Ethiopian cup competition. However, the army side were beaten 2-0 in first round via two penalty goals.
The Ethiopian Athletics Federation (EAF) is scheduled to celebrate the ‘global running day’ with a one-mile race on Wednesday, June 6, 2018.
Elite athletes will take part in the race which covers a distance of 1.6kms.
Partnering with sport ministers, city governments, race organizers and member federations around the world, the IAAF’s initiative incorporates the race to be held in a dozen cities across 15-time zones.
Officials of the Ethiopian Football Federation (EFF) announced that Ethiopia has not made any formal bid to host the 2018 African Nations Championships (CHAN) after the Confederation of African Football (CAF) made a decision to strip the hosting duties from Kenya.
CAF announced that three countries – Ethiopia, Equatorial Guinea and Morocco – have requested to replace Kenya as host countries.
Kenenissa, who is double Olympic gold medalist, will return to the championship by competing in the marathon after two years of injury.
He is now making an astonishing performance in different world marathon races.
Kenenisa was left out of the 2016 Rio Olympics team because he did not fulfill the requirements which were set by the Ethiopian Athletics Federation (EFF).
ano Band — a pioneering Ethio-Rock Fusion Band famed for blending melodic Ethiopian styles with powerful metal grooves, heavy guitars, and electronic sounds since 2011, has inaugurated its new recording studio.
For its inaugural launch, the band hosted an invitation-only event featuring an array of guests, esteemed individuals and participating artists.
According to Tenagne Tadesse, Program Assistant at the Institute, the films were selected on the basis of having been released less than 3 years ago, their coverage of social issues and documenting African realities, as well as the awards they had won and acclaim they had gained thus far.
The aim of the film week is to showcase successful African films and encourage local filmmakers.
They call it “the lung of Addis Ababa”.
And it does not take long for anyone who sets foot in the area to understand why.
With the best panoramic view of the city, Mount Entoto is home to diverse flora and fauna.
The taciturn, yet breathtaking Entoto Natural Park is part of the chain of mountains on the northern part of Addis.
Oje Ken Ollivierre, the Jamaican reggae star widely known as Protoje is set to rock Addis on July 29th at Laphto Mall.
The son of Caribbean artists, his mother was a one-hit wonder of the “Breakfast in Bed” song from four decades ago and his father was a calypso artist with some success within the Caribbean region.
The young artist has been gaining an international audience in the last decade with unique sounds and daring songs.
The highly popular Kana Television has launch of two new shows – an original Kana production and an international localized drama series – to further enhance the viewing experience of its growing audience.
Kana now produces nearly 30 hours of fresh content per week in Amharic.
Legendary Ethiopian saxophonist Getachew Mekuria passed away this week at the age of 81.
Getachew began his musical studies on traditional Ethiopian instruments such as the krar and the masenko, and later moved on to the saxophone and clarinet.
He began his musical career in Addis Ababa in the 1940s and was a member of Ethiopia’s famous Police Orchestra.
Near the city of Dire Dawa, Porc-Epic has long been a focus of study because of the variety of rocks characterized by a red or yellow color or streak, known as ochre, found there.
Over 4,000 pieces of ochre have been discovered at Porc-Epic and currently reside in a museum in Addis Abba.
There, they were studied by Daniela Eugenia Rosso of the University of Barcelona in Spain and Francesco d'Errico and Alain Queffelec of the University of Bordeaux in France.
A photograph exhibition entitled: “Peregrinate” will be presented on May 19 at Modern Art Museum Gebrekirstos Desta Center.
Peregrinate features the work of three photographers: South Africans Thabiso Sekgala and Musa Nxumalo, and Kenyan Mimi Cherono Ng’ok.
Asian-Pacific Film Festival kicked off this week to a devoted audience eager to experience foreign films.
The festival was delayed by a day following protests in Addis Ababa on Saturday.
The social media platform, TikTok, owned by a Chinese company ByteDance, is used to make a variety of short-form videos of different genres and is getting popularity, including in Africa.
Trace Tv is a global afro-urban entertainment channel to connect and empower the new generation and it is experiencing rapid international expansion, with different feeds present in 60 countries.
Halloween, as an event, seems to be growing each year in Ethiopia, specifically in Addis Ababa.
What originally begun within the expat community in Addis has now spread to local young people and event goers.
Celebrating this festival are also those who have returned from abroad.
So much for ‘when in Rome, do as the Romans do.’
Zoma is a sustainable museum that tries to bring the focus to traditional architecture in Ethiopia.
Located in Mekanisa, it gives a different meaning to modernism and what we consider as modern.
Guzo Adwa has inspired similar initiatives driven to educating a wider set of people about Ethiopian history.
Grassroots movements have spawned, taking locals on tours around historic sites in Addis Ababa and beyond
Fikru has shown his work worldwide in over 50 exhibitions and across three continents.
He has long been one of the highest selling contemporary Ethiopian artists.
Since moving back to Ethiopia 6 years ago, Fikru has been working full time on these paintings.
The relationship between aesthetic and commercial value especially in relation to the works of living and contemporary artists will add a layer of complexity to the objectivity of viewers.
The intoxicating aroma of freshly roasted coffee can be hard to resist.
Perhaps it is what gets most people through the day.
But have you ever considered using the deliciously warm brew in your cup to create a painting? Well, Tesfalem Atenaw did.
Fendika hosts this distinctive band every Monday night.
But each Monday is unlike the one before it.
That particular Monday, Kaÿn Lab joined forces with Nur M. Adam, a trumpeter for a night of impromptu performances.
Getting “good haircut” often means transforming one’s hair style to a “conventional” and “presentable” one.
But, for the millennials of Addis, it is far more than simple grooming.
Having the conventional haircut has been perceived as a way to be more acceptable to certain relatives, as well as to the wider community.
However, to some members of the youth, it is more than that – it is political, writes Gouled Ahmed.
Renowned storyteller, Tesfaye Sahilu, a.k.a. Ababa Tesfaye passed away on July 31, 2017, at the age of 94.
He died a week after he (through his daughter-in-law) received an honorary Doctoral Degree from Unity University – a recognition that is believed to be too little too late by many.
For many, Ababa Tesfaye was a father figure, a teacher, an educator, an entertainer and a patron of good will in society, writes Samuel Getachew.
Eyob, a 9th grader, who has been skating for the past five years, is a daredevil who tries various tricks.
Jemal and Gedion, on the other hand are both 11th graders, and agree that Eyob has the best tricks of all of them.
But, they explain each of the skaters have their own signature moves and marks with which they can be identified.
It is all about attitude for Arega.
He says the audience is yet to find its test in terms of street performance.
“We struggle in terms of finding training space since we have no licenses or permits to do our work,” Arega argues.
And he says he never gets paid nearly enough commensurate with the level of hardship he goes through while training and the hustle he faces when he takes his show to the street.
Ministry of Trade and Industry discloses that 42.75 million USD has been garnered in a quarter of the Ethiopia’s fiscal year from exporting manufactured goods.
The target for this sector has been set at 42.85 million USDs.
As the leading air cargo service provider in Africa, Ethiopian Airlines, coupled with the competitive geo-strategic advantage Djibouti has, this project, when fully operational, will double the cargo operation of the Airlines and make Djibouti a hub for sea-Air cargo logistics.
Sea-Air cargo project that is twice as fast as the sea only and twice as cheap as the Air only transportation would massively scale up trade relations between the two countries as well as between the two continents; Africa and Asia; in particular China.
The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and Awash Bank have announced a new partnership that will make up to $6.4 million in financing available to microfinance institutions and small- and medium-sized agricultural businesses in Ethiopia.
Under a USAID Development Credit Authority (DCA) agreement, this program will expand commercial bank lending into underserved areas and provide the private capital needed to help farmers and businesses intensify production, and support Ethiopia’s efforts to modernize its agricultural sector.
Wang Jun for his part said The Chinese Government would provide the necessary support to Ethiopia’s move towards digitized tax collection and tax administration services.
The Ethiopian delegation is on an official visit to China since December, 16.
Shangtex Holding Co. Ltd has signed a lease agreement with the Ethiopian Industrial Parks Development Corporation to invest at Bole Lemmi II Industrial Park.
Shangtex is the second largest textile company in China.
The agreement was signed here by Lelise Neme, CEO of the Corporation and representative of the Chinese company.
Ethiopian and Kuwait held discussion on the draft memorandum of understanding (MoU) on the employment of domestic workers.
In the discussion held from 21-22 January 2020 at Sheraton Hotel in Kuwait city, the two sides concluded the negotiations with promising progress.
They also agreed to finalise the remaining issues soon, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ethiopia (MFA).
“Ethiopian is responding to COVID-19 outbreak effectively with extra cargo flights and is shouldering its continental responsibility by shipping masks and testing kits where those supplies are being used in the fight against COVID-19 in Africa,” Tewolde noted.
In March alone, the carrier transported donations made to Africa by the Chinese business mogul Jack Ma in six days for all 54 African countries, the CEO stated, adding that “many African countries were surprised how the airlines distributed the medical equipment in a very short period of time.”
US Acting Assistant Secretary for African Affairs Donald Yamamoto said US needs to have a significant contribution for the industrial park development of Ethiopia.
Secretary Yamamoto made the remark following the discussion with Ethiopia’s Foreign Minister Workneh Gebeyehu in Addis Ababa on Friday.
She mentioned the increasing Moroccan investment in Ethiopia since the past two years including investments by Anwar Invest Group and Holmarcom Group, the country’s top investors.
According to her, the agreement signed between the two countries has helped to improve the tie in the economic sector.
According to the Hub, apparel continues to dominate East African exports across countries, accounting for 84.4 percent of all AGOA exports during the reported period.
East African countries have made sustained efforts to take advantage of their AGOA eligibility in recent years.
The Ethiopian Petroleum Supply Enterprise (EPSE) is the sole government body for the importation of petroleum products while the Ministry of Trade sets retail petroleum prices upon the recommendations of the enterprise.
The public is complaining that the government did not make appropriate price reduction whilst the nose diving global price of oil.
The story of the EPRDF-led developmental state is rather short; yet it is highly eventful.
For one, it is one of the few states in the world where perplexities of a rosy economic prospect and tainted democratic and human rights track record has co-integrated for more than 15 years. The shorter version of this story goes like this.
The report also concludes that the fact that the authority of federal prosecution is vested on the Ministry of Justice which combines judicial and executive powers is a serious problem.
The study also highlights the negative impacts of other government offices also having prosecutorial authority.
“The fragmentation of public prosecution weakens the institution, especially as different prosecution authorities are accountable to different ministries. This may be detrimental to the independence of the Public Prosecution Service,” it states.
In an unprecedented move, Members of Parliaments (MPs), the 100 percent Ethiopian Peoples’ Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) and affiliates controlled Ethiopian Parliament, demanded to ascertain the country's external debt repayment capacity, before ratifying new concessional loan agreements recently entered into with the Government of China.
The loan agreements in question are signed recently with the Chinese Export-Import (EXIM) Bank, which agreed to avail an aggregate outlay of USD 332.7 million for a highway road construction and power transmission projects envisaged to relieve the traffic congestions as well the fluctuating electric power supply in parts of Addis Ababa.
“The people of the two regions recently sat down and agreed to resolve their problems peacefully. The rent seekers have also been identified by the two regions, and were relieved of their position,” he added.
The PM told the house that the federal government has also identified the ringleaders, and vowed to bring them to justice.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed (PhD) met and discussed with members and leaders of opposition political parties who have returned home and those who are conducting their political activities in the country following the call by the PM during his inaugural speech back in April.
The discussion between the PM and the leaders of different political parties was held on Tuesday at the PM’s office; the two sides discussing various issues with the PM presenting a three-stage plan.
The historic deal was signed by Mohamed HamdanDaglo, deputy chief of the military council, and opposition leader, Ahmed al-Rabie, in Khartoum, Sudan.
The signing ceremony was witnessed by PM Abiy, SalvaKiir, President of South Sudan and other Heads of States from neighboring countries.
Soleyana Shemeles, the Communications Advisor to the NEBE, told The Reporter that “the NEBE designed all materials to be printed in five languages including Amharic, Amharic/Oromiffa, Amharic/Tigrigna, Amharic/Afar, and Amharic/Somali.”
The main materials being procured internationally, according to Soleyana, are voter registration book (voter list books), voter cards book, and plastic boxes with seals, to be used in the transport of materials to a secured storage facility at polling stations for overnight stays, voter registration forms, and voter registration stationary kits.
The closed sixth year fifth ordinary session also saw lawmakers approve the Defense Forces Amendment Proclamation.
The House of Peoples Representatives has approved the state of emergency that was referred to it by the Council of Ministers.
Ethiopia has done much in protecting biodiversity after the signing of the Rio Agreement in 1992, according to Ethiopian Biodiversity Institute.
The institute has been diversifying efforts to improve the ecological system and conserving biodiversity during the period.
UNDP Country director Louise Chamberlain said on her part that the goal of the plan can only be achieved with strong involvement of the people of Ethiopia and government leaders at all levels and across the country through strong partnerships.
The NFSDP will ensure an increase in Ethiopia`s forest coverage to 20 percent in 2020 and 30 percent in 2025 and make forest a core sector in economic structural reforms.
Oromia Environment, Forest and Climate Change Authority Deputy Director-General, Bona Yadessa said the authority will take corrective measures against the companies in the region which failed to implement the federal requirements.
In this regard, the region will not only penalize companies but award gold, silver and bronze to the companies that respected the code of conduct and realize chemical and wastage usage as well as labor protection.
The public parks that will be developed through this project will have lanes dedicated for bicycle riders, pure water and solar energy supply and recreational areas.
The project is expected to be completed within three years, and create job opportunities for lots of people of the city.
Factories causing environmental pollution in Oromia Regional State were urged to promptly mend their ways and operate as per the set standards.
Officials of the region who visited factories in good standing conducted a half-day discussion with factories in the region on issues of environment protection today.
“It will not create a problem on crops in Ethiopia for now,” the state minister noted, adding that “The dispersed locusts in Tigray region will go to the coast of the Red Sea for breeding; and the other swarms of locusts dispersed in Afar and central parts of the country will go to the coasts of Somalia.”
However, the state minister pointed out that it will return back in Belg season.
Trade and Industry State Minister, Yohannes Dinkayehu stated that deposited chemicals can be identified through the registry system and the government will dispose of or find way to reuse the chemicals.
He noted that the current industrial chemical use in Ethiopia needs strong administration system to know how to use or how to dispose chemicals.
Tigray Interim Administration Agriculture and Rural Development Bureau disclosed that 10 million tree seedlings are readied to be planted in the region this rainy season.
Bureau Natural Resources Development and Safety Net Sector Coordinator Desta Gebreselassie told ENA that tree planting holes are being prepared at various nurseries.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed called on the people of Ethiopia to duplicate the milestones achieved in the planning and implementation of the annual green legacy initiative in various sectors, facilitating Ethiopia’s inevitable prosperity.
The 2021 Green Legacy edition was officially closed in Adama today in the presence the Prime Minister and other senior government officials.
Heavy to very heavy rainfall (top 10-5% on record) is expected in western Oromia (Western and Eastern Welega and Illubabor) and southern Benishangul Gumu in Ethiopia, and localized areas of central and south-western Sudan.
Moderate rainfall between 50 – 100 mm is expected in the Darfur region in Sudan; western and northern regions of South Sudan, central and western Ethiopia, and a few areas in central Uganda and western Kenya.
Federal Government Procurement and Property Administration Agency announced that it has finalized preparations to start electronics procurement system technology (e-GP).
In an Exclusive interview with ENA Acting General- Director of the Agency, Jonse Gedefa said that the agency has been running the e-GP technology system project that would help to clear the government procurement activities from human error and misappropriation.
This robot is currently available in Ethiopia for ICT Week sponsored by Ethio-Telecom.
Designed by Hong Kong firm Hanson Robotics, Sophia has been programmed to speak Amharic, Ethiopia’s official language.
India is committed to further deepen its partnership with Ethiopia to support its development with innovation and technology.
The exhibition at the headquarters of Ministry of Innovation and Technology will remain open until December 14, 2019.
The MoU was signed at the Ethiopia and China Industrial Matchmaking Conference held in Addis Ababa.
At the conference, Trade and Industry State Minister Teka Gebreyesus said Ethiopia and China have good historical foundation to bring the current industrial cooperation into higher level.
He is expected to meet with Ethiopia’s ‘Tech Queen’ Betlhem Dessie, Project Manager at ‘ICog’, a tech firm dedicated to advancing the frontier of artificial intelligence research and application quality products to customer based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
He will also meet with Noel Daniel, who is a cofounder at Africa ‘Tech Next’, a global series of panel events on African tech entrepreneurship and market opportunities in the continent’s unfolding digital revolution.
Ethiopians on Sunday morning witnessed the solar eclipse after the moon is moving between the sun and the earth obscuring the planet Earth.
The solar eclipse was visible in several cities across Ethiopia, including the historical town of Lalibela and the capital Addis Ababa starting from 6:50 a.m to 9:30 a.m.
State Minister of Education Dr. Geremew Huluka told journalists during the event that the government has changed the curriculum to encourage science and innovation in schools starting from the lower classes.
“The education system at present highly encourages science and innovation starting from the bottom; and through this we can establish and find many scientists in every child that can help our day to day life in a scientific way,” he stated.
China Ecology and Environment Vice Minister, Liu Hua commended Chinese and Ethiopian professionals for doing their level best to see the satellite project succeed and meet its objectives.
Ambassador Teshome and Vice Minister Liu Hua noted that the two countries need to give impetus to their relationship with multifaceted bilateral and multilateral engagements in the future.
Finance Minister Ahmed Shide and a Safaricom delegation led by CEO Peter Ndegwa held discussion today.
Safaricom Ethiopia delegation provided updates on its operations in the country, it was learned.
The annual Innovation Africa Digital Summit that focuses on accelerating national ICT agendas, supporting African countries as they look to improve ICT maturity rankings, and laying foundations for achieving Sustainable Development Goals is underway here in Addis Ababa.
Opening the two-day summit, Innovation and Technology Minister Belete Mola said Ethiopia is working to transform its economy using digitization as a key instrument.
Ministry of Health has signed a trilateral agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the China Atomic Energy Authority (CAEA).
The agreement is to jointly implement an extra-budgetary in-kind contribution for a project titled “strengthening capabilities of member states in building, strengthening and restoring capacities and services in case of outbreaks, emergencies, and disasters”.
Ethiopian Health Minister Dr. Lia Tadesse has met with the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (US-CDC) Ethiopia’s new country director, Dr. Caroline Rayan.
The two discussed ongoing partnerships around HIV, immunization, Public Health Emergency Response including lab capacity as well as on potential new areas of partnerships.
As COVID-19 in Ethiopia has been consistently on the rise and triggering calls for more robust measures to halt the spread of the virus, the government is taking various measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic, it was indicated.
Following the first confirmed case of COVID-19 in Ethiopia in March 2020, the Government of Ethiopia took several public health measures and protocols to prevent increased levels of infection.
General Health Director with MoH, Dr. Yibeltal Mekonnen, on his part said that the ministry has acknowledged and will provide necessary support to the center so that it will spearhead a private health sector’s social responsibility engagements in responding to people in need.
Regular training for the health professionals is according to him, a basic assistance the ministry had gave to improve the efficiency treatment.
Ethiopia began accelerated Maternal and Neonatal Tetanus Elimination (MNTE) efforts in 1999.
In 2011, all the regions in the country except the Somali Region were validated for MNTE. The 2011 validation mission made recommendations that would see the Somali Region progress to MNTE over time.
Meat production today is nearly five times higher than in the early 1960s – from 70 million tonnes to more than 330 million tonnes in 2017.
A big reason for this is that there are many more people to feed.
According to UNICEF, disposable sanitary products are expensive and often unavailable. As a result nearly 75% of Ethiopian women and girls do not have access to the menstrual supplies they need to manage their periods.
Mebrahtu’s motivation came from personal experience.
The WHO Representative to Ethiopia, Dr. Boureima Hama Sambo, thanked Canada for the available funding to support the continuity of essential health services. He said, “The grant will not only strengthen the provision of quality, gender-responsive essential health services at primary care level but also boost health system resilience by building the capacity of regional and city health authorities to deal with current and future crises.”
This grant will benefit approximately 6.5 million Ethiopians in need, of which 50 percent are expected to be women.
Eka Kotebe General Hospital, which incorporates a mental institution in its premises, has been officially inaugurated today by Deputy Prime Minister Demeke Mekonnen and Health Minister Amir Aman.
Since it began operation in 2017, the hospital has provided health services for 116, 029 patients, of which 25 percent are mental disabled persons, it was learned.
A cornerstone has been laid today, to build the Ethiopia’s first specialized cardiac care center in the capital at a cost of 40 million Euro.
Minister of Health, Dr. Amir Aman and The Netherland’s Ambassador to Ethiopia, Bengt Van Loosdrecht have laid the cornerstone to build the cardiac care center at Black Lion hospital.
Gudaf Tsegay broke the women’s world record for the indoor 1500 metres on Tuesday after posting a time of three minutes, 53.09 seconds during a meeting in Lievin, France.
Ethiopian Tsegay beat by more than two seconds the previous record set by her compatriot Genzebe Dibaba in Karlsruhe in 2014.
“I’m very happy to set a world indoor record. I have been training really hard and I set myself a target to break the world indoor record,” Gudaf Tsegay told the World Athletics website.
Athlete Lena Hailu also won the French Indoor Championships in the 3000 meter while Athlete Habtam Alemu finished second in the French 800 meter.
The first Great Ethiopian Run in North America is scheduled to take place in Minnesota, USA, on the 4th of July 2020.
The Great Ethiopian Run scheduled to take place for the first time outside Africa is also the 1st edition in the US.
In an exclusive interview with ENA, Great Ethiopian Run General Manager Ermias Ayele said preparations are being finalized to celebrate the event together with the Ethiopian Diaspora residing in USA and around the world.
The International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) will hold its 70th congress in Addis Ababa next year.
The FIFA Congress, the most-critical gathering of international football’s governing body, used to assemble every two years.
According to chief of staff of the African Union chairperson, Ambassador Abdoulaye Diop the next congress will take place at the AU’s headquarters in Addis Ababa in May 2020.
This year’s 18th Great Ethiopian Run has grown to become a major street festival in Africa attracting thousands locals and foreign tourists every year.
On today, thousands people have taken to the streets of Addis Ababa to take part in Africa’s biggest road race, a challenging 10km run at 10,000ft above sea level.
On the day, a huge variety of runners from all age groups and fitness levels participated, it was indicated.
The Ethiopian National Football Team has qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations (CAF) today.
Ethiopia qualified for CAF after the match between Niger and Madagascar ended in a draw, while Cote d’Ivoire beat Ethiopia 3 to 1.
Letesenbet smashed the world record at the Valencia Half Marathon Trinidad Alfonso EDP, clocking 1:02:52 on her debut at the distance at the World Athletics Elite Label road race on Sunday.
Competing in the same Spanish city where she broke the world 5000m record last year, Gidey took more than a minute off the previous mark of 1:04:02 set by world marathon champion Ruth Chepngetich earlier this year.
Ethiopian-Israel golfer Asher Iso, without taking anything away from the extraordinary achievements of the other winners this week, has championed Israel Men’s Masters Tournament at the Caesarea Golf Club.
Asher, a dedicated staff member of the club, immigrated to Israel from Ethiopia in 1991 and first came to the golf club 27 years ago.
In Betking Ethiopia Premier League match, happened in Hawasa, the champions Fasil Kenema beat Hadiya Hosaena 3 to 1.
Fekadu Alemu has got a hat-trick in the game by scoring all the three goals for Fasil Kenema while Baye Gezahegn netted the only goal of Hadya Hosaena.
In the league’s closing encounter of the first week, Sebeta Ketema and St. George drew nil.
The Ethiopian national anti-doping office said it has begun doping tests on athletes.
More than 150 elite athletes are undergoing the two-day tests being done in partnership with world athletics integrity unit, it said.
According to EBC, more than 22 Ethiopian experts are taking part in the anti-doping tests.
Hadijah Nandago gave Uganda a 1-0 lead after 26 minutes before skipper Fauzia Najjemba made it 2-0 on 40 minutes when substitute goalkeeper Demelash Banchayehu failed to hold the ball.
After the break, Ethiopia’s Ridet Assrasahang pulled one back on 50 minutes.
Substitute Ariet Odong made it 2-2 after the 78th minutes before the referee sent off Ethiopia’s coach Firew Hailegebral.
But the Ethiopian team did not give up and scored the winning goal through Turist Lema on 82 minutes.
The South African National Football team has arrived in Bahir Dar for FIFA 2022 World Cup Qualifiers match they have tomorrow with their Ethiopian counterpart.
As goal.com reported a few days ago, their Belgian Coach, Hugo Broos, said that their game with Ethiopia is “crucial.”
According to this outlet, ‘Broos has challenged his side to “do everything to get six points” from back-to-back matches against Ethiopia as the qualifiers enter top gear.’
South African, the Bafana Bafana, is leading the group by a point ahead of Ghana, the Black Stars; and Ethiopia, the Walia Antelopes, placed third.
he extraordinary spate of athletics world records in the super spikes era continued on Tuesday as Letesenbet Gidey smashed the two-day-old women’s 10,000m best, set by Sifan Hassan on Sunday, by more than five seconds.
It was the latest in a long line of staggering performances in the game-changing technology, which is reckoned to improve performance by between half a second and a second a lap.
Gidey, who was running on the same Hengelo track where Hassan set her world record, always looked confident.
For much of the race – which doubled as the Ethiopian trials – she churned out 72-second laps before powering home in a final lap of 63 seconds, despite having to weave between other runners, to finish in 29:01.03.
Following the qualification of the Ethiopian men's national team (Walias) to the 2022 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon after an eight year absence from the tournament, over 500 fans and 25 sports journalists are set to attend the event to be held from January 9 – February 6, 2022 in Cameroon.
The Secretary General of the Ethiopian Football Federation (EFF), Bahiru Tilahun, and the owner of Sisay Aderisse Promotion, Sisay Aderisse, held a joint press conference on Tuesday, December 7, 2021 at Sheraton Hotel, where it was stated that fans will be able to attend the event.
A package of three-day visits, a ten-day return ticket (ten days depending on the result) was prepared and additional packages would be discussed accordingly.
Following the request by the Ethiopian Football Association to have its World Cup qualifier against Ghana in South Africa, the Ghana Football Association asked the world football governing body last Friday to ensure that there is fair play in the last two matches.
Ghana and South Africa are separated by one point going into the last two group matches.
It is, therefore, shocking that the Ethiopian Football Association would seek to take their home match against Ghana to South Africa.
President of the Ethiopian Olympic Committee (EOC), Ashebir Woldegiorgis (MD), announced that kenenisa Bekele will represent Ethiopia and compete in the coming Tokyo Olympics, scheduled to be held from July 23 to August 8, 2021.
In his comments, Ashebir acknowledged that the Ethiopian Athletics Federation (EAF) has the mandate to select the athletes.
“Passing decision on who makes the cut is the responsibility of the Athletics Federation. Our main demand is to achieve results that will raise the flag of our country. So, we can’t stand by and watch when athletes who have one of the best times are left out of the competition due to improper practices,” Ashebir said.
A runner who fled Ethiopia nearly a decade ago is preparing for Sunday's Tokyo Marathon with hopes of returning to Japan this summer as a member of the Refugee Olympic Team.
Yonas Kinde, 39, who competed at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics, has been training this week with a university athletics team in Tokorozawa, near Tokyo, after receiving an invitation from Tokyo Marathon organizers to run in the elite division of the race.
"I'm in good condition," he said during training on Thursday.
"I hope the weather will be nice, and (I want) to find a good pace for me and record my fastest time at the Tokyo Marathon."
The first Irrechaa Great Run is scheduled to take place in Addis Ababa on September 22, 2019
During a press conference held on Thursday, Oromia Regional State Tourism Bureau stated that 50,000 runners and several elite athletes are expected to participate in the event.
According to the organizers, the winners will be awarded with a prize.
Ethiopian international referee Bamlak Tessema has been selected to officiate at the FIFA U-20 World Cup which is scheduled to be held in Poland from May 23 to June 25 2019.
The FIFA referees committee has selected 27 referees, 42 assistants and 21 video assistants for VAR technology.
The FIFA U-20 World Cup match officials’ capacity building preparation will focus on the wide range of topics, such as their reading of the game and football understanding, teamwork and the importance of obtaining the best position or angle.
According to FIFA requirements, the referees should be at the right place at the right time to make the correct decision.
Well, there were different Taekwondo competitions in Addis Ababa and its regions held by the Ethiopian International Taekwondo Association
During my young age, I had a chance to watch these competitions and in 2004, I competed in the Addis Ababa club championships.
After my debut competition,I have achieved several medals in all local tournaments.
Following the resignation of my former instructor in 2008, I took a responsibility to manage Choi Hong Hi taekwondo club and since then, I have been working as an instructor.
So, my good performances helped me to participate in international competitions across the world.
The Ethiopian National Football Team has qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations (CAF).
According to sources, Dawit won her first indoor competition in Prague in February 2014, running a time of 4:09.08 minutes.
At the Rabat Meeting she established herself among the world’s top 1500 m runners with a win in 3:59.53 minutes.
Letesenbet Gidey of Ethiopia smashed the world half marathon record with 1:02:52 at Valencia half-marathon, an average of 2:59 min/km!
She took more than a minute off Ruth Chepngetich’s 1:04:02 in Istanbul last April.
Second placed Yalemzerf Yehualaw again dipped under 1:04 (1:03:51) after her previous result of 1:03:44 at Antrim Coast half was not ratified due to a short course.
Ethiopian Premier League Share Company has decided Mekelle 70 Enderta and Fasil Kenema football clubs to participate in the 2020/21 CAF continental club football competitions.
Accordingly, Mekelle 70 Enderta, champion of the 2011 E.C. (2018/19) Ethiopian Premier League season, will represent Ethiopia in the CAF Champions League.
The 22-year-old has now won her second league title in Europe, with her first the Swedish Elitettan crown in the colours of Kungsbacka DFF in 2018 which she scored three goals in eight games to power her side to the Damallsvenskan for the first time, it stated.
Before joining for Melania Bajada’s team, the striker had returned home from Sweden to help Adama City to win its first-ever Ethiopia Women’s Premier League title and won top scorer for the fourth time, scoring 18 goals despite joining in the mid-season.
The festival opened to local and international filmmakers and film enthusiasts alike at Vamdas Cinema and Entertainment in partnership with the Embassy of Brazil in Addis Ababa and the Association of Black Audiovisual Professionals on Wednesday July 18.
The three-day festival kicked off with Carolina, a 2003 short film about the life of black Brazilian author Carolina Maria de Jesus and her struggles with poverty included footage of her increased popularity once her book was published.
Leza, a radio show on Sheger FM 102.1 hosted by Berhanu Digaffe, has been organizing Leza Awards for seven years now.
Recognizing talent by a selection of musicians and filmmakers, it has been one of the platforms where local artistic excellence is celebrated.
Leza, the organizer of the event, also paid tribute to prominent singer Zeritu Getahun who had passed away the previous day.
Mulatu Astatke’s trailblazing album, Mulatu of Ethiopia, was officially rereleased on Friday May 19.
Recorded in New York, the album from 1972 arrived at a time when Mulatu had begun to master the delicate fusion of styles needed to create Ethio jazz.
The release of one of the most acclaimed artist Teddy Afro’s album, entitled “Ethiopia,” definitely is one of the stories that “broke the Internet” (went viral) among Ethiopians and the Ethiopian diaspora.
On the one hand, the song “Ethiopia” was criticized for preaching the grand narrative of Ethiopian nationalism without deconstructing the historical injustice, thereby denying the existence of oppression.
In his new work entitled "The Massacre of Debre Libanos Ethiopia 1937; the Story of One of Fascism’s Shocking Atrocities", the author yet again presents the events surrounding both the assassination attempt in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia on 19 February 1937, and the reprisal killings and massacre that occurred in the days and months that followed.
The author in his book presents a traumatic and detailed account of the extent of the massacre, which resulted in the deaths of more than two thousand monks, priests, and local residents at the monastery.
The comencement of Walta’s Televistion paves a way for an alternative platform that can market new ideas in a manner that can educate, inform and entertain the general public, watchers said.
The Center plans to prepare content in different local, regional and international languages. However, the programs which are being aired are in Amharic.
KUTU was formed as a result of a meeting in Addis Ababa between French violinist Théo Ceddaldi and Ethiopian new age singers Hewan Gebrewold and Haleluya Tekletsadik with band members Valentin Ceccaldi on bass, Akemi Fujimori on keyboards and Cyril Atef o
The independent satellite channel is currently producing 12 different programmes, incorporating psychology, law, music and drama, the publication reported.
This time around however, Festal Tigray was for the first time celebrated colorfully in Mekelle the capital city of Tigray National Regional State.
The festival also included entertainment activities accompanied with musical extravaganza presented by renowned Tigrian musical artists such, as the late kiros Alemayehu and the late Iyasu Berhe and many other new talented musicians as well.
Ethiopia’s first success at the Cannes Film Festival tells a simple tale, but the film’s director has set his sights on the world stage thanks to support from the French film industry.
Having successfully premiered “Lamb” in the director’s home city of Addis Ababa earlier this month, the filmmakers have turned their attention to their next important release: in France on September 30.
The Addis Ababa City Beautification, Park and Cemetery Development Agency announced that it will soon inaugurate six mulita-purpose parks in the city, which include features satisfying all age groups.
These parks are designed to have swimming pools, basketball courtyards, amphitheaters and cafes, according to the Agency.
MultiChoice Ethiopia, a South African company that operates the DStv satellite television service, announced plan to significantly increase its investment in Ethiopia.
The company said in a statement that it is looking to extensively expand its reach, investment in people and infrastructure in Ethiopia.
It is also planning to provide support to Ethiopian content and content creators including investing heavily in local content as part of its hyper local content strategy.
During the event, artists performed traditional dances that demonstrated the beauty of the diverse nations, nationalities and peoples of Ethiopia.
Ras Theater Director, Meron Teshale told ENA that art has a power to strengthen unity in diversity and show diversity as a source of peace and harmony.
Poems, drama, music, and dance, among others, are important instruments to teach the people about the beauty of diversity with few words and through entertainment, she added.
Gohe peace and unity award 2021 has been awarded for 11 eminent person,including gammo fathers, inter-religion council of ethiopia and ethiopian traditional leaders council in a colorful ceremony that took place on Sunday
The award was given as symbol of their unwavering commitments towards promoting peace and unity in their localities and the country at large.
With the celebration of the UNESCO registered Timket fesival approaching, restoration of Jan-Meda, the open field where the festival is celebrated, has been intensified, Addis Ababa City Deputy Mayor Adanech Abiebie said today.
In an exclusive interview with ENA, the deputy mayor said besides being a place where Timket is celebrated, Jan-Meda is a place for hosting many social events and sports.
Ambassadors of different countries to Ethiopia and various diplomatic corps have attended cultural music, dances and fashion shows on Saturday at National Theater.
The show, which was colorfully staged in the event organized by Ministry of Culture and Tourism, hopes to capture and portray diverse cultural heritages, traditional music and fashion from country’s nations, nationalities and peoples.
President Sahle-Work Zewde has met with the General Manager for Africa of CANAL+ Group who presented the company’s work in Ethiopia.
CANAL+ Group has made a significant investment in the entertainment industry.
President Sahle-Work appreciated the commitment of the company to incorporate Ethiopian content and content creators on the platform and highlighted the importance of using such platforms for education as well as entertainment.
The second channel of Oromia Broadcasting Network (OBN), a regional broadcaster headquartered in Adama, has started trial transmissions today.
The new channel, called ‘OBN Horn Of Africa’ as per the decision of the regional state, targets strengthening unity and fraternity among people in the east African region, according to Adisu Arega, head of social cluster with the rank of Deputy Chief Administrator of Oromia.
The Meskel Square-Addis Ababa City Hall Project that mainly contains the refurbishment of Meskel Square is the most iconic public gathering space in the modern history of Addis Ababa that has been hosting several cultural, religious, political, entertainment and sports activities for more than 60 years.
Meskel Square annually hosts the Meskel-Demera Religious Festival which has already been inscribed by UNESCO as world’s intangible heritage.
The name Meskel derives from the Amharic term Holy Cross.
President Sahle-Work Zewde received Imtiaz Patel, Chairperson of the Board of Multichoice Group.
Multichoice Group has made sizable investments in Ethiopia both in improving access to the many information and entertainment products that they have but also in supporting local content creation in sports and entertainment.
Fana television will migrate to SES satellite as of December 31st, 2020.
Ethiosat is Ethiopia’s first-ever dedicated free-to-air (FTA) TV platform, hosted on SES’s NSS-12 satellite.
Ethiosat currently delivers 65 channels to Ethiopian homes, with 16 of those channels already in high definition (HD) quality.
KUTU was formed as a result of a meeting in Addis Ababa between French violinist Théo Ceddaldi and Ethiopian new age singers Hewan Gebrewold and Haleluya Tekletsadik with band members Valentin Ceccaldi on bass, Akemi Fujimori on keyboards and Cyril Atef on drums.
The KUTU tour set out to embody the magic they have created through this alliance, with upcoming performances outside of Ethiopia and within Ethiopia as well.
The set included multilingual music from within Ethiopia, incorporating love songs, breakup anthems and folk songs in different languages.
Nowadays multiple skateboarding parks have been built in recognition of the culture after years of the youth skating in unauthorized and dangerous streets due to the unavailability of proper venues.
Amongst the list of people and institutions responsible for the growing culture is ‘Kushineta skates.’
“Kushineta is opening up its first store in megenagna and that’s a huge step forward,” said Yared, hoping the future is wide open for the industry.
In an exclusive interview with FBC, a member of the Afro-Ukrainian hip hop trio Fo Sho, Betty Endale said that their group has a plan to promote immense tourism potentials of Ethiopia to the rest of the world.
The Afro-Ukrainian hip hop trio consisting of the three Ethiopian-Ukrainian sisters, Bethlehem (Betty), Miriam and Siona Endale have already left an imprint on the Ukrainian hip-hop scene.
“In Africa we are one, to show unity in diversity; we may have different borders like Ethiopia, Nigeria, Egypt, and Central Africa Republic but Africa is one.
In our diversity there is a lot of unity among us, so we want to spread that unity,” he noted.
Ethiopia will participate for the first time at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival in the African Pavilion, Tourism Ethiopia announced.
Briefing journalists today, Tourism Ethiopia CEO, Lensa Mekonen said partnered with local and Diaspora film professionals, Ethiopia is ready to participate in the Film Festival which will be held in France next week.
A few weeks after the controversial draft law establishing the Office of the Federal Attorney General got the approval of members of the parliament (MPs), the government has submitted yet another controversial draft law to provide for the computer crime.
Ethiopia first introduced cybercrimes in the 2004 Criminal Code which penalizes only cybercrimes of ‘hacking’, ‘dissemination of malware’ and ‘denial of service (DoS) attacks’.
Seven law enforcements officers and an unknown number of armed protesters were killed in the series of clashes that happened on Monday in West Arsi zone of the Oromia Regional State.
According to the locals, the cause of the clashes an alleged ban of an Oromifa song that has a political content.
They told The Reporter that the clashes started after police officers questioned why the banned song was played at a wedding ceremony.
The report was prepared upon the request of the governments of Ethiopia and Sudan and describes the illegal activities that are taking place from the Horn of Africa via Libya to Europe as a “dangerous and organized illicit trade”.
The 39-page report entitled, “Human Smuggling and Trafficking on the Horn of Africa-Central Mediterranean Route” was made public February 19, 2016 during a consultation meeting organized by the new ISSP office, which was opened in Addis Ababa.
The stay-home protests are currently taking place in Gondar and in some parts of Bahir Dar.
But as of Thursday, a wave of protester and unrest has been observed in Finote Selam and Bure, towns in West Gojam Zone of the Amhara Regional State, becoming the latest regions to join the mood of protest in the regional state.
The ruling Ethiopian Peoples' Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) and opposition parties have recently put their differences aside and have agreed to come to a roundtable to find ways of redeeming the already tense political environment.
The parties have so far been discussing on modalities of negotiation, which would serve them as a bylaw for their future dialogue.
Nonetheless, the parties are finding it hard to agree on some points, which would be the legal framework.
President Sahle-Work Zewde has been selected as one of the World’s Most Powerful Women of 2019 by Forbes.
The President is the only African woman on the list.
President Sahle-Work Zewde is a role model not only for Ethiopian women but women all around the world.
Ahmed Shide for his part said “the Cooperation Framework is the planned support of the UN Agencies to the national development priorities of Ethiopia as shown in the Ten Years Perspective Plan and the Home Grown Economic Reform.”
The Finance Minister hailed the signing of the cooperation framework which comes at a time when Ethiopia is undergoing a major strategic shift to embark on a transformational growth while fighting against the pandemic.
The one-day exhibition is part of the annual celebrations to mark the 120th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between Ethiopia and the Russian Federation.
Ethiopia and the Russian Federation established diplomatic relations in 1898, just after the Battle of Adwa.
Abiy, who recalled EPRDF’s decision to limit the term of office, said an amendment that would help to limit the term of office for the Prime Minister will be added in the constitution shortly.
The Water Ministers of Ethiopian, Egypt and Sudan are conducting a joint meeting with the technical committee on the Ethiopian Grand Renaissance Dam.
The meeting that kicked off today in Addis Ababa will stay for two days.
Ethiopia’s Water and Irrigation Minister Sileshi Bekele, Sudan’s Minister of Water resources and Irrigation Muataz Musa; and Egyptian Water resources and Irrigation Minister Mohamed Abdel Ati have been attending the meeting.
The Nobel Committee awarded the prize for Abiy for his efforts to achieve peace and international cooperation, particularly for his decisive initiative to resolve the border conflict with neighboring Eritrea last year, three months after he came to power in April 2018.
The PM is the 100th winner and was selected from 223 private and 78 organization nominees.
The 10th criminal bench of the Federal Supreme Court granted police 14 days additional time for further investigation on Abdi Oumer Mohammed, former president of the Somali region and accomplices.
The lawyers of the defendants contested the request for additional time. However, police requested for the additional time, arguing that the case demands deep investigation.
The joint forces have taken control of the Zobl mountainous area and other very significant towns including Arjo, Fokissa and Boren.
The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has launched a 52 million dollars five year program to help pastoralists in Ethiopia.
The program called “Pastoralist Areas Resilience Improvement and Market Expansion – PRIME” is jointly designed with global climate change initiative and will be implemented from October 2012 up to 2017 in 36 districts found in Oromia, Afar and Somali regions.
Ethiopia is building a $4.3 billion, 6,000-megawatt hydropower plant on the Blue Nile River, the main tributary of the Nile River that provides Egypt with most of its water.
The dam, to be completed by 2017, has raised concerns in Egypt that it will cut supplies of water allocated by accords put in place more than five decades ago.
The project, known as the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, is set to be Africa’s biggest hydropower plant when it is built.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ethiopia (MoFA) has downplayed warns of attack by Somali militant group al- Shabaab, notified by the US government.
The United States government recently reported to have received threat reports of al-Shabaab’s intent to target the Bole area of Addis Ababa city.
The humanitarian situation is most acute in the Tigray Region, where 5.2 million are at risk, along with another 534,000 in Afar and 3.3 million in Amhara.
However, there is still no indication as to when help will arrive after the UN announced on Wednesday that it was forced to suspend aid distribution in the northern Ethiopian town of Kombolcha after gunmen looted its warehouses.
More than 80 people have been killed in two days of unrest in Ethiopia following the killing of prominent singer Hachalu Hundessa.
The 34-year-old had emerged as a powerful political voice of the Oromo ethnic group, and had made many enemies during his musical career.
Ethnic nationalism was kept ruthlessly in check under the Marxist Dergue regime and during the two decades of EPRDF rule that followed.
The opening of the political space under Mr Abiy has lifted a lid on ethnic tensions.
Ethiopia's system of ethnic federalism was always going to be vulnerable to politicians playing on atavistic sentiments.
Many Oromo activists are being held at the Qilinto facility, according to pro-opposition media.
New York-based Human Rights Watch says that more than 400 people have been killed in clashes with the security forces in Oromia, although the government disputes this figure.
Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn has blamed "anti-peace forces" for the violence.
Violence between the Amhara and Gumuz ethnic groups left dozens of people dead last month in Amhara and its neighbouring region, Benishangul Gumuz.
Ethnic violence, typically sparked by land disputes, has displaced nearly three million people across Ethiopia.
Another issue the prime minister is having to grapple with is unrest within the military.
The 41st anniversary of the foundation of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) is celebrated in Mekelle through commemoration of the martyrs, panel discussion and other programs.
The party has urged the young generation to understand the reasons behind the party’s armed struggle and ensure the already started journey of the country towards renaissance.
The 12th annual meeting of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) concludes meeting re-electing Abay Woldu as a chairperson.
The meeting, held for six days, also elected Dr. Debretsion Gebremicheal as vice chairperson of the front.
According to Ambassador Asminew, Ethiopian forces are also given additional responsibility to train Somali forces to establish a strong national army that can conduct operations independently.
“These efforts will help spread security and stability to all the Somali people,” he said.
The census, planned to start this month, was postponed to next February due to various technical problems, according to the agency.
Biratu Yigezu, director general of CSA, told FBC yesterday that preparations are nearing completion to undertake the census after two months.
Ethiopia and Equatorial Guinea today signed a reciprocal visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic and service passports.
The agreement was signed by State Minister Hirut Zemene and Don Simeon Oyono, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Equatorial Guinea.
On the occasion, President Dr. Mulatu Teshome congratulated the newly appointed Ethiopian Ambassadors on their appointment and wished a successful tenure.
President Mulatu noted that the Ambassadors shoulder great responsibility in promoting Ethiopia’s tourism, attracting investment in a bid to support developmental activities.
The Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) announced that it is ready to serve the 1 million Ethiopian Diaspora expected to come to their home country for twenty-four hours seven days a week and provide several financial services.
Speaking to ENA, Commercial Bank of Ethiopia CEO, Abie Sano said the visit of 1 million Ethiopian Diaspora is a good news to the bank and the bank is making preparations to further develop packages and refresh services.
The bank has launched a booking system called Gate Rooms, which enables the diaspora to book hotels from where they are, the CEO revealed, adding that members of the diaspora who come to Ethiopia could easily make booking, pay, and book online.
National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) has introduced a contractionary monetary policy that would be effective as of today.
A contractionary monetary policy increases interest rates in order to slow the growth of the money supply and bring down inflation.
This can slow economic growth and even increase unemployment but is often seen as necessary to cool down the economy and keep prices in check.
Ministry of Mines and Petroleum disclosed that it has earned 513 million USD from export of mines during the last ten months.
Briefing journalists today, Mines and Petroleum Minister Takele Uma pointed out that the income is remarkable when compared to same period of last Ethiopian year, which was 90 million USD.
Out of the total revenue, USD 504.7 million was obtained from gold export, he added.
Inhabitants around the recently inaugurated Genale-Dawa III Hydro-power said the project has opened immense opportunity for them, besides benefiting the country.
Genale-Dawa III hydropower project, which generates 254 MW, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed this week.
Among the inhabitants residing around the dam, Abdi Haji told ENA that “the power project plays immense role in their lives in terms of road connectivity, irrigation, energy as well as job opportunity.”
All pluses and other commodities which are trading through the Ethiopian Commodity Exchange (ECX) are set to be mandatory starting from this Ethiopian budget year, according to the authority.
In an exclusive interview with ENA, ECX Corporate Communications Manager Netsanet Tesfaye said the trading of all pluses through the authority starting this Ethiopian budget year will help combat contraband.
All stakeholders, including ministries of Revenues and Trade& Industry will follow up the implementation process in accordance with the agreements reached.
Addis Ababa January 23/2019 Prime Minster Abiy Ahmed said that Ethiopia is working to enhance the engagement of the private sector in order to ensure more inclusive and socially sustainable growth.
Speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the Premier said that bringing vitality to the economy is part of the sweeping reforms that the country has been undertaking.
The Premier elaborated to the Forum that the economic reform is aimed at leveraging the collective power of Ethiopians specially, women and youth.
Turkish investment in Ethiopia is increasing as more companies interested in doing business in the Horn of African country, Turkish Ambassador to Ethiopia Fatih Ulusoy said.
Ethiopia, the largest investment destination for Turkey in Africa, has attracted close to half of the latter’s investment in the continent.
In an exclusive interview with ENA, Ambassador Ulusoy said, Turkish foreign direct investment in Ethiopia has continued to increase.
Ministry of Mines announced that it will be implementing a policy change that will give metal and steel manufactures access to local iron ore in order to produce steel bars.
Mines Minister Engineer Takele Uma said that the implementation of the new policy will eliminate the struggle manufacturers are facing including lack of raw material and forex.
We are visiting our manufactures today to discuss this with them and urge them to continue to focus on what matters during this critical time of our historic trajectory and continue our initiative to use our natural resources.
Tourism Ethiopia Director, Sileshi Girma told The Ethiopian Herald that they have identified 50 potential sites for investment in the coming 10 years in the tourism industry.
He stated that the participation of the private sector in tourism and hospitality sectors has been good over the past years.
However, there are challenges such as lack of access to loan from banks and most of the tourism destinations are far from the capital of Ethiopia, he added
The Soflet Malt which joined the Bole Lemi Indistrial Park with an outlay of 70 Million Euros has finalized preparations to start production on coming March 2021.
The Soufflet Malt Ethiopia which is a French family-owned business based on collecting and adding value to agricultural raw materials is building malt factory at 10 ha of land in the industrial park.
Soulfflet Malt Ethiopia has already created production supply chain for 25,000 farmers, and will increase number of beneficiaries to 40, 000 when its factory goes fully operation in the future, the information from Industrial Parks Development Corporation.
According to Industrial Parks Development Corporation, Soulfflet Malt Ethiopia will have a capacity of producing 100,000 metric tons of malt per annum.
Ethiopian gold exports surged after the central bank offered higher prices for the metal in a bid to curb smuggling and as part of wider efforts to spur investment in mining.
Ethiopia’s gold industry is currently dominated by small-scale artisanal miners, but Newmont Corp. and Australia’s Allied Gold Corp. are among the companies exploring for the precious metal in the Horn of Africa nation.
The government hopes that cleaning up informal mining by channeling gold sales through the central bank is a first step to making the country more attractive to investors.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved last month a program for Ethiopia of 2.9 billion US dollars.
The program is aimed at supporting the homegrown economic reform agenda of the country.
The economic reform is designed to eliminate macroeconomic imbalances and lay the foundation for sustainable and inclusive growth.
According to IMF, the $2.9 billion program would facilitate Ethiopia’s transition to flexible exchange-rate system.
The country is importing daily the same amount of fuel as it was in the past days via Djibouti and Sudan with more than 300 fuel trucks, he said.
The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MoTI) as well as the Ministry of Mines, Petroleum and Natural Gas said they are not authorized to control fuel distribution in the country.
The Minister said Ethiopia has introduced cadastral-based modern mining licensing and database system to promote investments in the sector.
The system enables investors to see different investment opportunities, to request for license from where they are living and to pay payments in simple and clear way, he added.
He stated that the Cadastre System assures conducive environment for investment by building trust and creating closeness among the community, the companies and the government.
Ethiopia collected some $318 million from the export of flowers and other horticulture products Ethiopian fiscal year, which ended July 7, 2019.
The Public Relations Director remarked that over a hundred companies have been engaged in the cultivation of flowers, fruit, and vegetables as well as herbs and supply of high-quality products to the international market.
Ethiopian horticulture products' main export destinations are the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, UK, USA, Japan, Norway, Germany, UAE, Belgium, and Italy.
Ethio-telecom has announced new tariff cuts on international voice calls and short text-messaging.
In a press conference today, CEO of Ethio-telecom, Firehiwot Tamiru, said the company had made 10-40 percent reduction on international voice calls.
She also announced up to 51 percent tariff cut on international short text-messaging.
The Ethiopian economy will maintain its growth lead for the East African region according to the latest World Bank report.
The latest forecast puts Ethiopia at a percentage point behind Ghana.
The West African nation is forecast to grow at 8.3% as against Ethiopia’s 8.2%.
“Among East African countries, Ethiopia is likely to remain the fastest growing economy, but growth is expected to soften as it takes measures to stabilize government debt.”
The addition of Habesha Petroleum, JR-Petroleum Plc, Kernel Oil Trading Plc and Kalub Oil Ethiopia, pushed the total number of oil retail companies in the country to 22.
JR-Petroleum is the latest entrant among the four companies opening its doors on December 25, 2017.
The company was established with a 21 million Br capital and is headquartered in Addis Ababa.
Founded by three partners engaged in distributing fuel from Nile Petroleum under a franchise arrangement, JR currently runs eight filling stations.
Ethiopia's year-on-year headline inflation crept up to 8.8 percent in June, up from 8.7 percent the previous month, the statistics office said on Tuesday.
Food inflation slowed to 11.2 percent in June from 12.3 percent the previous month, it said. Non-food inflation was at 6.7 percent in June, up from 4.7 percent in May.
The Ministry of Trade has disclosed that it has planned to gain about 1.2 billion birr from the export of oilseeds and pulses this year.
Crop production and Marketing Directorate Director with the Ministry, Mulugeta Muhammed, told WIC that the country has planned to export 98.233 thousand tons of oilseeds and pulses this year and gain the stated amount of income.
The planned amount of export has increased by 26 percent as compared to the same period last year.
The drastic increase of Ethiopia’s debt stock has been a source of debate among policymakers, researchers and political analysts in Ethiopia for the last half a decade.
As the country’s total debt surpassed 50 billion dollars since 2017, the country has become among the most indebted economies in Africa.
Especially the tendency of the central government to undertake mega projects with finance secured from external creditors, even with a high interest, coupled with the critical foreign currency shortage in the country have weighed negatively on the country’s ability to meet its debt obligations
Last week, the National Bank of Ethiopia introduced a new rule that forces depositors make a maximum of five transactions per week.
While this was intended to paralyze illegal money transfer agents and weaken the parallel market, the measure comes with a risk as it could result in a fall in business transactions and create a fear that it would lead to an economic slowdown.
“Hurting the wider business community just to cripple few illegal money operators is not fair. Of course, weakening the parallel market is a step in the right direction but adopting a radical measure will cause more problems,” said Wujrayib Yibgeta, Vice President of Addis Ababa Traders Forum.
Given the repercussions of the transaction limit, which some experts refer to as a draconian measure, it is simple to understand how desperate the government is to increase remittance flow, which averaged USD5.7 billion over the last five years.
A decade ago, ETB17 was equivalent to a dollar. As the years rolled and following the repeated devaluation of the currency in order to boost the international competitiveness of the import-dependent country, the value of the Birr has been reduced by as much as 130%.
Though this was meant to boost export earnings, while reducing import bills of the country, none of these have been realized so far.
While the country shipped an average of three billion dollars of goods annually in the last decade, its imports barely averaged 15 billion dollars.
Accordingly, the MTN Group Ltd. and a consortium led by Vodafone Group Plc, have bid for the licenses.
Ahmed told The Reporter that the company's bidding document is under evaluation and as soon as it gets the government’s approval, the results will be publicized.
According to Abayneh, this time, the zonal administration livestock and fishery office is finalizing all the necessary preconditions to relocate people who live in the surrounding areas to other places.
For instance, Chencha, Dita, Gacho Baba and Bonki are some of the mountainous areas where the farming is taking place.
Mati Multiplex, the first state-of-the-art cinema house in the country, has launched a plan to expand nationwide with branches across six major regional towns while Bahir Dar becomes the first town outside Addis Ababa to have 3D Cinema facility.
Although Mekele, the seat of the Tigray Regional State, is the first regional town to host the first branch of the Cinema chain a year ago with 35mm movie screening cinema facility, another regional town Bahr Dar has taken the lead in hosting the 3D Cinema infrastructure outside of Addis Ababa.
Addressing Climate Ambition Summit 2020, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed said that Ethiopia has taken bold leadership on climate action by launching its ambitious climate resilient green economy strategy that aspires to build a carbon neutral and resilient economy by 2030.
Over the last two years, Ethiopia’s green economy strategy has been fully mainstreamed into the recently launched yet 10 year perspective development plan, which runs from 2021 to 2030, Prime Minister Abiy noted.
According to a statement issued by the Ministry of Water, Irrigation and Energy of Ethiopia, the three countries negotiated on technical issues on the first filling and annual operation of the dam.
The chair of the previous day meeting recapped the issues on which convergence is reached, including the rules on the first stage filling, volume of environmental flow, guidelines for first stage filling, the drought management rules, rules on dam safety, environmental and social impact assessment studies, and entry into force of the guidelines and rules.
According to the minister, the harvest expected from 300,000 hectares of land this year would help produce 10 million quintals.
Even if it was possible to get more produce this harvest season, the flooding in Afar Region obstructed the effort to meet the target, he added.
Some 90,000 hectares of irrigated land has been covered with wheat, the minister said, adding that best seed, chemical, fertilizer supplies have been properly provided.
The Korea Forest Service has been expanding collaboration with Ethiopia to restore degraded forests through sustainable agroforestry.
The latest event was a launch ceremony held on Wednesday for a book “Re-greening Ethiopia” co-published by Korean Forest Service and Ethiopian Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
During the event, a memorandum of understanding was also signed for P4G, the Partnering for Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030 which is an initiative with 12 middle-power partner countries including Denmark and South Korea.
Ethiopian Environment and Forest Research Institute announced a plan to cover the Abay Gorge areas ranging from Kere Goha to Dejen town.
Located on the boundary of Oromia and Amhara region, the Abay Gorge is a serios of gorges to a depth of some 1,500 meters.
A research that will serve as a roadmap for afforestation of the Abay Gorge has been jointly conducted by Ethiopian Environment and Forest Research Institute, Selale University, Debre Markos University and Forest and Climate Change Commission.
The Ethiopian Soil Information System (EthioSIS) project was launched in 2012 to transform the agriculture sector by improving the fertility of farming soil to support agricultural transformation.
The system has been supporting agriculture by developing soil fertility maps for more than 18,000 rural kebeles in the country and providing up-to-date soil fertility data as well as recommending the best type of fertilizer for soil in each region, Tegbaru said.
Geo-hazards are affecting agricultural products and human life in selected areas of Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region (SNNPR) of Ethiopia, according to Geological Survey of Ethiopia.
According to the study conducted in collaboration with Czech Geological Survey, areas around Arbaminch, Leku, Dilla and Mejo are highly affected by erosion, floods, landslide and rock falls due to occurrence of ground fissures, high gradient reliefs and intensive deforestation.
The National Disaster Risk Management Commission warned about a potential flash flood in some parts of the country due to torrential rains in the coming days.
In a presser he gave today, Deputy Commissioner Damene Darota said that some parts of Amhara, Oromiya, SNNP and Tigray as well as most parts of Gambella regional states are vulnerable to flash flood.
Areas close to Awash, Baro-Akobo and Nile river basins and tributaries are also exposed to flood risks, he added.
Several actors and experts in the wildlife sector, including from regional and international organizations partaken on the workshop, which among other things discussed on opportunities and challenges of the wildlife in Ethiopia.
Professor Masresha Fetene, from the Ethiopian Academy of Science, told journalists that despite its untapped natural resources, the country is facing some challenges in wildlife conservation.
Kenya’s firefighting helicopter that has the capacity to hold 1200 liters of water starts sprinkling on a blaze that rage the Semein Mountains National Park.
The helicopter and 12 Israeli wildfire experts have arrived this morning at the national park to support the eradication process of the wildfire raging in the national park.
As wildfire has been ravaging the Semein national park for a couple of weeks, Ethiopia has called the international community for support to contain and extinguish the blaze.
Ethiopia's Environmental Analysis conducted by World Bank, Forest, Environment and Climate Change, Finance and Economic Cooperation ministries and Ethiopian Development Research Institute was launched here today.
According to the Environmental Analysis lack of integration among the sectoral ministries and regional bureaus, problems of value addition in using natural resources and lack of strategy on green industry are identified as the main challenges that hamper effective actions against environmental climate change related actions.
The Addis Ababa City Administration Environment Protection and Green development Commission said that it has shut down two factories, which it accused of polluting the environment.
Environment Commission Director with the Commission, Bayu Tola, the two factorie–Hansen Glass Factory and Dire leather factors got closed after they repeatedly failed to warnings to make corrections.
Government Communication Affairs Office Minister, Bereket Simon, stressed the need to further consolidate soil and water conservation so as to protect the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam from silt and sediment.
Bereket, who is also secretary of the National Council for the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam Project, said soil and water conservation and natural resource protection should be undertaken in Amhara, Oromia and Benishangul Gumuz states towards the same goal.
Ethiopia and Djibouti have established a Joint Coordinating Committee in Djibouti to expedite the successful implementation of the plantation of nine million tree seedlings In Djibouti.
Ethiopia has pledged to provide one billion tree seedlings to the Neighboring countries in its belief that climate change and desertification in the region demands Regional solutions.
Ethiopia has planted 20 billion trees to build a climate-resilient green economy and assist the Global efforts to respond to the Earth’s climate change and its adverse effects.
The Ethiopian Metrology Agency said that the heavy rainfall is expected to continue in September, and warned the public over the sudden flooding incidents.
The weather forecast compiled during the month of August shows that there will be heavy rain in coming months. The Agency advised the people to be cautious of possible sudden flooding.
Flash floods killed five people in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa in the last two days, the city’s Addis ababa city fire and emergency prevention and rescue agency official said today .
Among the 11 people four were swept away as they tried to cross a river in the Nifas sil Lafto suburbs of the city Hana mariam particular area, Nigatu Mamu, spokesman for the city’s fire and emergency division said.
Stored agricultural and industrial chemicals at various institutions in Addis Ababa and regional towns are posing health hazard and environmental pollution, experts warn.
This was disclosed at a three-day training held this week in Addis Ababa on chemical weapons control and chemical safety and security management facilitated by Organization for Prevention of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) for member states.
In the side line of the workshop, environment experts told The Reporter that with the increasing use of agricultural inputs and the thriving manufacturing sector, the threats of environmental pollution is increasing from time to time.
Visiting Addis Ababa this week, Sara Terry, senior policy advisor to the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards under the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), has brought her team to initiate the work of air quality management system in the capital.
Speaking to The Reporter on Friday, Terry said that within the coming two years Addis Ababa is expected to devise a policy to institutionalize air quality management system under the city’s Environmental Protection Authority (EPA).
Officials of the Guji Zone in the Oromia Regional State has denied plans of transferring the Kenticha Tantalum Mine to youth associations saying that it was “merely an idea to entertain rather than an actionable plan” and that it had no intention of depriving the federal Mining, Petroleum and Biofuel Corporation off its mining concession and processing facility.
However, according to the head of the zonal administration, Tilahun Warda, the youth residing in the surrounding of the Tantalum Mine are posing series question as to their benefits from the natural resource and said that as long as the Corporation is willing to address this demand, there will be no problem.
A multi-sectoral stakeholders’ platform joined hands to rescue over 131,000 cattle on the verge of death in Borena zone of southern Oromia.
These cattle can stand and walk only with human support as deadly drought takes hold in Borena.
Over 71,000 livestock have already died since the drought began.
The current drought occurred in Borena, West Guji, Guji, East Bale, West Hararge zones, and it exists as an alert stage in East Hararge and Bale, according to Ketema.
Excessive level of water at Ethiopia’s giant hydropower dam, Gibe III, has prompted officials at Ethiopian Electric Power (EEP) to commence a controlled release of the water as of the coming week.
The hydropower plant that entered in to its commissioning phase six months ago was unable to generate in full capacity owing to the low level of water caused partly by the EL Nino induced drought in the country.
The aftereffects of the drought caused heavy rain falls in many parts of the country that consequently threatened overflow of the Gibe River on top of the dam.
Sandstorm has hit the city of Dire Dawa, in the eastern part of Ethiopia and its surroundings.
The sandstorm that hits Dre-Dawa and its surrounding lasts for more than an hour.
Assistant Prof. Yonas Tadese, a geography lecturer at Dire Dawa University told ENA that the phenomena is the result of a low air pressure that moved to the northern hemisphere.
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Resources warned farmers today to remain vigilant on possible threat of swarm of locusts during this rainy season.
Briefing journalists, Ministry Plant Conservation Director Zebdios Salato said fragmented swarm of mature locusts have entered parts of the country.
He assured farmers that the mature locusts do not inflict damage on the crops right now.
The station, which is constructed in the compound of the agency's Adama branch, is expected to provide data that will help to measure the level of the pollution trends in the city.
The data will also serve as a vital input for policymakers and stakeholders who work on air pollution and related issues, Abate Getachew, head of the Meteorological Research at EMA told The Reporter.
The new start-up businesses law and establishment of job creation fund would make Ethiopia preferable for beginners in technology, Dr Ahmedin indicated.
The State Minister also responded to questions raised by participants.
The 10 years old Ethiopian Soliyana Gizaw has been named the winner of the 2020 African Code Challenge (AfriCAN Code), a newly launched continent-wide tech competition where young people were invited to create an educational computer game.
According to organizers Soliyana’s submission called “Mathstainement” won the Pan-African prize leading participants from 54 countries.
Innovation and Technology Minister, Belete Mola (PhD) has conferred with UK Ambassador to Ethiopia Alastair McPhail on ways of enhancing cooperation between the two countries in the field of science and technology.
During the discussion, the Minister said Ethiopia and UK have been enjoying a longstanding and close relationship calling for further engagement to deepen the existing ties with multifaceted areas of cooperation.
The mobile application has been developed by the Consortium of Reproductive Health Associations (CORHA) together with United Nation Population Fund (UNFPA) and the Ethiopian Ministry of Health (MoH).
While launching the application, Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Director at Ministry of Health, Dr. Meseret Zelalem noted that in today’s world adolescents and young people rely on their mobile devices as sources of information so that ‘Yenetab Mobile Application’, which is available on Google play store, is proving to be an authentic source of health information with a strong emphasis on adolescent and youth sexual and reproductive health rights.
Director General of INSA, Dr. Shumete Gizaw has presented the touchless hand sanitizing technology to Prime Minister Dr. Abiy Ahmed.
Having tested the automatic technology, Prime Minister Dr. Abiy described the innovation as an encouraging move calling for further advancements so as to fight the coronavirus pandemic avoiding physical contacts.
Coordinator of the innovation unit in the agency, Biruhtesfa Mulugeta said activities are well underlay to increase access of such touchless technologies in the country as a part of an innovating response to the pandemic.
The third in a series of competitions, Solve IT 2020 will be promoted across 15 cities in Ethiopia and seeks to support youth across the country to develop innovative projects, promote entrepreneurship, and solve local problems through technology.
Solve IT 2020 will be implemented by iCog Labs, with sponsorship from the US Embassy, JICA Ethiopia, the Federal Small and Medium Manufacturing Industry Promotion Authority, and the Federal Urban Job Creation and Food Security Agency.
Offering degrees in Business Administration and Computer Science at the graduate level, the American College of Technology (ACT) has been inaugurated in the capital.
The school located in the ICT Mart building in Arat Kilo behind Tourist Hotel came about an investment of 42 million Birr to help the “local Information Communication Technology capacity, as part of Ethiopia’s development agenda,” said Asmamaw.
Inaugurating the delayed Genale Dawa (GD-III) hydroelectric power project on Tuesday Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed (PhD) made an appeal to local investors to build the next phase of the hydroelectric project GD-6, in the same river basin that requires an estimated financial outlay of USD one billion.
According to the PM, the latest offer is issued for the first time to the private sector to get involved in the power production sector.
Facebook is teaming up with the Government of Ethiopia to help inform millions of Ethiopians with what it says will be “valid and up to date information on COVID–19.”
To that end, there is to be a WhatsApp Business API that will be used as a hotline with an online “chatbot”.
In addition, the new partnership is to have a number of components, including supporting health practitioners for access to information, supporting fundraisers, removing harmful information that it deems is wrong.
Nebiyu told The Reporter that the modern and efficient technological device to be installed in major streets of Addis Ababa are intended to give the exact locations of tourism spots both for foreign and local tourists.
He also noted that such steps would boost the city’s revenue from this sector by introducing new facilities to the existing tourism and cultural resources.
“What we need to do first is try to maximize the promotional activities and modernize the service,” said Nebiyu.
The state-owned telecom monopoly, Ethio Telecom, is fighting a telecom fraud committed by individuals using illegally imported VSATs and other telecom gadgets that bypass the company’s satellite network.
The individuals get payments for their services from foreign telecom companies which was supposed to be made to Ethio Telecom.
The state-owned monopoly is reportedly losing millions of dollars due to the telecom fraud.
Ethiopian researchers have introduced a new species of sorghum seed that could give yield multiple times per year.
Once the seed is sown, it gives output two to three times per year for 20 generations, if it gets water continuously, said Minister of Science and Technology that supports the research.
However, if it does not get water, the seed will give output once in year during the rainy season, said the Minister Eng. Getahun Mekuria.
Former National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) astronaut, Charles Bolden, gave a lecture today to space enthusiast students drawn from the Ethiopian Space Science Society (ESSS) and different schools in Addis Ababa.
The former astronaut told ENA that he was in Ethiopia in 2014 when he had discussions with government officials.
HubCity Live- Ethiopia brings a conceptual master plan to build the real “WAKANDA” in Bahir Dar city of Ethiopia.
The ministry, the federal government and Amhara regional government work together for the realization of the project that projected to cost two to three billion US dollars, he further stated.
The project is expected to be completed eight to ten years.
Speaking of the award, Ethiopian Airlines Group CEO Tewolde GebreMariam quoted as saying the award is “a testimony to the leading role that Ethiopian Cargo & Logistics Services is playing to the socio- economic development in Africa and the rest of the world with safe, secure, dependable and competitive cargo and logistics services.’’
The Ethiopian Cargo and Logistic Services is Africa’s largest network cargo operator and multi-award winner.
Ethiopia’s earth observatory satellite will be launched into space by November 2019 as preparations are finalized, according to Ethiopian Space Science and Technology Institute.
In an exclusive interview with ENA, Institute Director-General Solomon Belay said “we have completed about 95 percent of the satellite, and checking and launching will be conducted after September.”
Speaking at the 5th ICT National Innovation Competition Award Ceremony and Mini Exhibition Event held today, State Minister, Getachew Negash, noted that the government has paid due attention to ICT through support, inspiration and creation of internationally competent ICT engineers to excel the sector.
Negash noted that the government highly encourages and motivates women to join the sector.
Such actions will be continued in a well comprehended way in the future.
The LG-KOICA HOPE TVET College has graduated 51 students in 3rd and 4th levels on Saturday.
Head of KOICA in Ethiopia, Doyong A, also said that LG and KOICA (Korea International Cooperation Agency) cooperatively realized the establishment of the college and will strengthen supporting the college to make it center of excellence in information technology and electronics field of studies.
The second SolveIT! a nationwide innovation competition for Ethiopian youths, has been launched in Addis Ababa last Friday.
Sponsored by U.S. Embassy and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the program helps Ethiopian youth to develop tech-based solutions to address community challenges.
Mr. Tewolde GebreMariam, Group CEO of Ethiopian Airlines, says, “We are glad to introduce inflight internet connectivity with the latest broadband satellite technology, Ka-band, offering our passengers seamless digital experience as they fly Ethiopian.
The launch of the onboard wi-fi internet is part of our relentless efforts to further add to passengers’ comfort keeping pace with the technology of the day.
As customer-centric airline, we will remain focused on continuous service excellence, taking advantage of emerging technologies and infrastructure.”
Huawei installed the up-to-date telecom equipment in the AAU pharmacy campus for educational purposes. After 3 years’ know-how transfer, Addis Ababa University will gain 100% ownership of the ICT Practice Center.
The first to East Africa, the 2.1 million USD investment of the project includes a donation scope of 1.9 Million USD worth of equipment for training and demonstration, and the Train the Trainer program to Addis Ababa Institute of Technology (AAiT) teaching staff.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has handed over the national science, technology and innovation award to 194 winners today.
Of the total winners 15 are women.
Some 1,887 persons including today’s awardees have received the science, technology and innovation award since its commencement in 2010.
Director-General of INSA, Dr. Shumete Gizaw, for his part, said the discussion was focused on capacity building, technology, and system development to strengthen South Sudan’s information and cybersecurity.
During the discussion, the need to closely work together to ensure information and cybersecurity was accentuated.
In addition, the launch of Ethiosat will offer Ethiopians a larger offering of both local and relevant international content in the future.
Fissehazion said, “We believe consolidating all Ethiopian TV channels and broadcasting them from one orbital position will fuel growth in the Ethiopian media sector, as local networks will now be able to easily expand their audience reach.
This will foster healthy and growing advertising markets, which will result in a greater variety of content, and more localised content.”
Ethiopia has launched its first-ever remote sensing satellite into space on 20 December 2019.
The 72kg satellite of Ethiopia was developed in collaboration with the Chinese Academy of Space Technology.
Twenty one Ethiopian engineers got training in China and were involved in the design and development of the satellite.
This Multi-Spectral Remote Sensing Satellite is named Ethiopia Remote Sensing Satellite-1 (ETRSS-1).
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed yesterday announced preparation to award the second new nationwide telecom license with the necessary policy adjustment.
In 2018, Prime Minister Abiy’s administration announced commitment to liberalize the telecommunication sector and opened it up to domestic and foreign investments.
He called the decision “a major policy shift in Ethiopia”
Canadian Physicians for Aid and Relief (CPAR) and Global Affairs Canada are set to spend approximately 110 million Birr (4.1 million CAD) to help Ethiopia with sexual reproductive health (SRH) of women and adolescents.
This is to be a four year project and is to support Ethiopia’s priority in helping improve its national curriculum.
The project is to be in the Amhara and Oromia Regional States and will place Canada’s foreign agenda of feminism at forefront and will look at gender discrimination in areas of early and forced child marriage, female genital mutilation, and early pregnancy.
Inferior quality salt with low content of iodine produced traditionally in the Afar Regional State is flooding the local market, it was learnt.
The government has enacted a law that compels salt producers to iodize the salt.
The Ministry of Health in collaboration with UNICEF has been assisting the traditional salt producers associations to build their capacities so as to enable them to iodize the salt.
The Ministry of Health of Ethiopia has recommended that the postponed general elections can be conducted given the public’s awareness in the means of transmission of the coronavirus pandemic as well as the capabilities created in the country to produce masks and hand sanitizers.
In addition to recommending holding the elections by taking the necessary precautions, the Ministry also suggested economic and social activities be restored with proper precautions taken to prevent the spread of the virus.
Hence, such gatherings should allow enough ventilation, maintain social distance, mandatorily use face masks, enforcing frequent hand washing and other necessary measures.
After discovering one, Ahmedin Shafi, who was caught red handed while producing foods, beverages and preservatives using outdated ingredients this week, the Ethiopian Food, Medicines and Health Care Administration and Control Authority (FMHCACA) have issued an order to the company to recall all of its products from the market although some of the items produced by the food processor are still sold in some markets outside of Addis Ababa.
Over the past fiscal year, as part of its mandate, the authority said that it has disposed 600.8 million birr worth of drugs, medicine, cleaning products as well as foods and food ingredients which are declared outdated.
The illegal dental product,“Herbal Colgate”, was produced by counterfeiting a similar productproduced in Ethiopia and registered by the Authority: Dentplus.
DentPlus which is a registered product with FMHACA and produced by a company called Virginia Pharmaceutical Plc; an Ethiopian based company owned by local investors.
The Authority urged the public not to use “Herbal Colgate” as well as inform the concerned offices in case they notice the products being sold.
However, due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and other challenges, the malaria eradication campaign is not being implemented as expected, the State Minister said.
Dr Dereje underscored the need to identify strengths and weakness observed in the past and find ways to deal with them to eliminate the disease by 2030.
The Health Ministry yesterday graduated cutting edge medical laboratory machines in the presence of senior government officials.
Molecular testing machines inaugurated in the premises of St. Paul Medical Millennium Medical College and Ethiopian Public Health Institute are said to have a capacity of testing a total of 4,500 samples of TB, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, cervical cancer, various sexually transmitted diseases, and other cases in 24 hours.
On the occasion, the Health Minister, Dr. Lia Tadesse said the government along with various partner agencies has been undertaking different initiatives to enhance the laboratory quality and capacity nationally.
The medical supplies are part of the project entitled “Improving the quality of health care provided to newborn babies in two zones of Tigray and SNNP regions, Ethiopia,” launched in March 2020.
It covers 61 health centers, 229 health posts, and six primary hospitals in the two regions.
An estimated 94,000 pregnant women and newborn babies are expected to benefit from the project.
Minister of Health Dr. Lia Tadesse visited the reform activities of Felegehiwot Hospital of Bahir Dar City including Clean and Save Hospitals (CASH) project and Electronic Health Records implementation and the efforts to make the service areas patient centered.
She expressed gratitude to I thank the hospital leadership for their commitment to effectively implement the reform program.
Meanwhile, the 29th International Day of Persons with Disabilities has been marked in Bahir Dar yesterday under the theme “Building Back Better: toward a disability-inclusive, accessible and sustainable post-COVID-19 World”.
Deputy Prime Minister Demeke Mekonnen has held discussion with Director General of the World Health Organization (WHO), Dr Tedros Adhanom.
The discussion was held on the sidelines of the first Global Refugee Forum opened in Geneva, Switzerland yesterday.
During the discussion, Dr Tedros commended Ethiopia’s leadership in health for all program and its efforts to prevent non-communicable diseases (NCDs).
A high level event entitled “Impact for good; A cross-sectoral dialogue for strengthening partnership between Africa, Israel and the world Jewry” was held today here in Addis Ababa.
In his opening remarks, Israeli President Reuven Rivlin said that participants of both countries were aspiring to see a joint future to ensuring common concerns as food security, public health, infrastructure and energy.
Noting partnerships engender reliable changes; President Rivlin said “the agreements inked today will set forth to the ever growing ties between the two countries in addressing challenges in health, education and energy in particular”.
The Ethiopian Public Health Institute (EPHI) announced today that the rapid spread of COVID-19 across the country, the positivity rate, mounting severe cases and high death rates are exceedingly concerning.
EPHI Emergency Operation Center Deputy Incident Manager, Dr. Mikyas Teferi said 227 people have died due to the COVID-19 pandemic during the past week alone.
Severe cases that need special Intensive Care Unit treatment in centers are also exponentially increasing and the pandemic’s positivity rate has reached 9 percent, he added.
Ethiopia announced an immunization campaign to vaccinate more than 7 million Children against polio next week, according to Ethiopian Public Health Institution.
The four-day campaign will take place in Oromia, Somali, Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples’ Region (SNNPR), Harari regional states as well as in Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa city administrations.
Ethiopian Public Health Institution (PHI) Deputy Director-General, Aschalew Abyneh told journalists today that the regions and city administrations are selected based on an assessment conducted throughout the country in December 2019 to see the prevalence of the disease.
The campaign is part of the on-going efforts to fight polio in the country, according to him.
Sahlework arrived today in Afar Regional State’s capital Semera to mark the national HIV/AIDS Day where discussions with various stakeholders are expected to be undertaken.
President Sahlework, who is also Secretary of the National HIV/AIDS Council, stated that the disease over the last 15 years has caused wide range of damages including social and economic.
Due to the attention given, the prevalence of HIV/AIDS had been declining, Sahlework said, and pointed out “however, the disease is starting to be pervasive again because of the negligence among the leadership and the public.”
Yellow fever epidemic has occurred in Wolayita Zone of the SNNPR, according to Ethiopian Public Health Institute.
Laboratory test conducted on blood specimen sent to Dakar, Senegal, has revealed the existence of yellow fever causing virus in the specimen, the institute stated in a press release it sent to ENA.
Some 35 citizens were suspected of carrying the disease during the last 3 months, it pointed out.
A national technical team headed by the institute and composed of experts from Ministry of Health, Pharmaceuticals Fund and Supply Agency, WHO, UNICEF and Center for Diseases Control is preparing swift preventive measures and control mechanisms to effectively stop the epidemic.
Ministry of Health has launched integrated measles, Vitamin A, and de-worming campaign for displaced people in Gedeo Zone of Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region.
The measles vaccination campaign targets 928,000 children aged 6 months to 15 years among the internally displaced and host communities in Gedeo Zone.
More than 500,000 USD has been allocated from the United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) towards supporting the preventive measles campaign, it was learned.
Dlamini-Zuma told the executive council of the 54-member body, meeting at the bloc’s headquarters in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, of the urgent need to “craft a united, comprehensive and collective African response” to the outbreak.
The meeting came as hopes rose of a potential vaccine to provide temporary shield against Ebola.
A novel vaccine tested so far only on monkeys provided “completely short-term and partial long-term protection” from the deadly virus, researchers reported in the journal Nature Medicine.
The Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and Ethio-American Doctors Group, Inc. (“EADG”) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding agreeing to locate the Regional Cancer Center of Excellence (“RCCE”) at the hospital and medical village complex being built by EADG in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
According to World Health Organization report (2008), 63% of global cancer death, or 56% of new cancer cases, are in the developing world.
Excluding skin cancer, 50% of the 10 Million people diagnosed with cancer annually live in developing countries.
The external assessment team that conducted the final Polio outbreak assessment in Ethiopia on 8-12 June 2015 confirmed that Ethiopia has successfully interrupted polio transmission.
This encouraging conclusion was received nearly two years after the outbreak was confirmed in the Horn of Africa and outbreak activities initiated to respond to and interrupt Polio transmission.
Honorable Dr. Kebede Worku, State Minister of Health, welcomed the the assessment team’s conclusions and recommendations, and assured the team that the Ministry will continue to implement its Immunization Program with due consideration of the recommendations to strengthen the immunization and surveillance system to sustain the achievements in polio eradication.
Canada is contributing $30 million to several United Nations agencies and non-governmental organizations working to provide emergency humanitarian assistance to millions of people in drought-stricken in Ethiopia, federal minister of international development and La Francophonie announced Thursday.
Canada’s funding for Ethiopia will help meet critical food, health and nutrition, and water and sanitation needs in response to the deteriorating situation throughout the country, the document said.
The money Care will receive from the federal government will be spent on meeting the immediate humanitarian needs of drought-affected families in the West Hararghe zone of Oromiya state, he said.
The Ethiopian Minster of Health, Dr. Kesetebirhan Admasu has been nominated by the co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation, Mrs. Melinda Gates for the 120 under 40 awards.
The award which launched on 26 September, 2016 recognizes and highlights the achievements of the next generation of family planning leaders worldwide.
Commenting on the work of Dr. Kesetebirhan on the nominee page, Mrs. Gates described him as a tireless advocate for family who has been instrumental to the training of various family planning service providers in Ethiopia.
“In Ethiopia, progress in fighting malaria has contributed to the remarkable reduction in overall mortality among children under five."
Through PMI, hundreds of millions of people have benefited from protective measures and hundreds of millions more have been treated for malaria.
In Ethiopia, PMI has procured about 20 million insecticide treated bed nets, 9 million rapid diagnostic tests, and more than 15 million treatments to prevent malaria.
In 2011, all the regions in the country except the Somali Region were validated for MNTE.
The 2011 validation mission made recommendations that would see the Somali Region progress to MNTE over time.
The recommendations were implemented especially corrective vaccination campaigns against tetanus in 2016.
Deputy Health Minister Dr. Dereje Duguma underscored that the delta variant Coronavirus is currently causing a devastating crisis in Ethiopia.
Dr. Dereje exclusively told FBC that number of new confirmed cases, intensive care patients and death tolls from the delta variant are alarmingly increasing putting socio-economic situation at stake.
Lack of adherence to precautions set to curb spread of the virus among the community and poor performance of preventive and control activities have contributed to an alarming increase of transmission of the pandemic .
Prevalence of unsafe social gatherings are also negatively contributing to the intensification of the pandemic, he noted.
Ministry of Health stressed the need for Health Professionals Competency Assessment and Certification to enable the community get access to quality health care services.
In a press conference held today, State Minister of Minisry of Helath Alemtsehay Paulos said the country has resumed evaluation and certification of health care professionals which was stopped due to the pandemic.
Evaluation aims to bridge skill gaps in health workers thereby realize quality services in the sector, Alemtsehay noted.
The state minister noted that the evaluation process deals with issuance of certification for first degree graduates who pass the required examinations and get qualified for standards put in place to improve the service delivery.
Ministry explained that the system helps screen out professionals who have skilled gaps, and help them get qualified through practical professional assessment.
President of the Ethiopian Islamic Affairs Supreme Council, Mufti Omer Idris in his goodwill message of the celebration of Mewlid urged the Muslim community to enhance their support to people who are affected by natural and manmade problems in the country.
The day was particularly marked in Addis Ababa at the Grand Anwar Mosque with various religious activities in the presence of religious scholars, residents of the city and government officials.
Tourists who attended the festivity expressed their happiness with the peaceful the celebration despite that fact that the country is in state of emergency.
They expressed their suspicion of instability before their arrival and also witnessed that the country is in calm and peaceful situation and suitable for touring.
Irrecha, a thanksgiving festival of the Oromo people, has been celebrated at Hora Finfine in Addis Ababa today.
The Oromo people celebrate Irrecha to thank Waqa (God) for the blessings and mercies they have received; and also to welcome the new season of plentiful harvests after the dark and rainy season associated with nature and creature.
Ashenda is a unique religious and traditional festival celebrated every year in Tigray and Amhara Regional States between 16 to 21 August.
Ashenda is a Tigrinya word meaning ‘’tall green grass that estimates around 80–90 centimeters minimum height.
In the tradition of this religious festival, blades of grass are strewn on the floors of homes and shops as a kind of welcome mat.
Unmarried girls and young women skillfully wove the grass into a bunch and wear them at their back while dancing on the occasion.
Abune Paulos, who died on August 16 at the age of 76 after an illness, was the patriarch of Ethiopia’s Orthodox Church since 1992, when he was elected to the highest order of the denomination.
His Holiness, Abune Paulos was also president of the World Council of Churches.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed called on Muslims to remember and practice the teachings of Prophet Muhammad while celebrating his birth.
In a message he extended in connection to the celebration of the birth of the Prophet, Abiy called on Muslims to practice what the Prophet has taught while celebrating the festival known as Mawlid.
Mawlid, the birth of the Prophet, is mainly celebrated with prayer, reading the Quran, singing spiritual songs that honor the Prophet, and offering food clothes to the poor.
Abiy noted that the Prophet taught that the world need four pillars to survive – teaching of the wise, justice of the elderly, prayer of the good and courage.
Religious fathers serving at Lailbela Rock-hewn churches appreciated the visit of French President Emanuel Macron and requested speedy renovation of the historical site.
After visiting the Lalibel Rock-hewn churches on Tuesday, President Macron had pledged to give technical and financial support for the renovation of the churches.
Some religious fathers who attended the welcoming ceremony for the president told ENA that urgent restoration is needed for the churches which are severely damaged.
Megabi Haylat Semayat-Semere, a spiritual songs teacher, said he is very happy that the president paid visit to the site; and urged the governments of Ethiopia and France to cooperate and respond to the urgent need.
The newly established Japan-Korea-Ethiopia Friendship Association held a concert in Tokyo, Japan, with the view to strengthening the people-to-people relationship among the countries.
Speaking at the concert which took place on January 14, 2021, Ethiopia’s Ambassador to Japan, Kassa Teklebirhan said the formation of the association would strengthen the people-to-people relation among the three countries and expressed the embassy’s readiness to work together with the association to achieve this goal.
According to a statement from the Ethiopian Embassy in Tokyo, he also called on members of the association to visit Ethiopia and explore the vast tourism and investment potentials of the country.
French National Order of Arts and Letters was bestowed upon the celebrated Ethiopian musician, Mulatu Astatke, today for his distinguished contributions.
French Culture Minister, Franck Riester said during the award giving ceremony that Mulatu has uplifted music to another level by combining Ethiopian and another melodies.
“His innovative contribution to music, particularly jazz, has earned him a global prestige,” he added.
Mulatu Astatke is an Ethiopian musician and arranger considered as the father of Ethio-Jazz.
Six delegates representing Ethiopia have finalized preparations to partake in the Cannes film festival including model and actress, Gelila Bekele as well as Film producer Mehret Mandefro.
Upon returning from Cannes, Tourism Ethiopia will establish a local working group to study the potential of the film industry market as a site for international co-production beyond job creation, she pointed out.
The working group will also produce a case study report that lay out the business for targeting the film industry as a job creation sector, she indicated.
Tewodros Kassahun (Teddy Afro), Ethiopia’s best selling artist, controversial, often times poetic, at all times talented, released his long awaited album – Ethiopia – this week.
It has since shot to number 1 in Billboard’s World Album chart – a milestone for Ethiopian music.
At home, relaxed, uplifting and vulnerable at all the same time, he hosted Samuel Getachew and Dawit Endeshaw of The Reporter as he opened up on his family, career, Ethiopia and what it means for him to be loved by millions of people around the world.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has appreciated all those involved in organising a memorial concert in honour of Tilahun Gessesse.
The organizer contributed more than 80 million birr proceeds collected towards the ‘Dine for Ethiopia’ initiative.
“Thank you for leaving an indelible print on Ethiopia’s development,” the Prime Minister tweeted.
This is the second installment of African Film Week, the first launched in 2016 with the African Union Culture Department.
The Film Week hopes to bring African countries closer by showcasing each other’s works, forming a shared experience and creating opportunities for storytellers.
Leul Shoaferaw, local filmmaker and founder of Eerie Productions Inc., states the week is a tremendous platform to introduce the best of African films to the Ethiopian audience and filmmakers.
“I believe this festival will expand my regional and international professional outlooks, nurture my creative capacity and inspire to contribute to the African cinema portfolio.”
One of the uprising rappers, Lij Michael, is scheduled to perform on May 21 at Bole Fana Park.
At this concert Lij Michael will be featured with Michael Belayneh.
Organized by Yorka event organizer this concert is entitled “Addis Concert”.
This concert focused on having a mini festival in introducing the best album, best singles and also best DJs in the country.
They chose Lij Michael as their debut concert since his album entitled “Zare Yihun Nege” was well accepted among fans.
Especially his single “Zemenay Marye” was able to capture audience ears easily.
Mihret Dawit’s clay works exhibition was presented on April 21 at Asni Gallery.
The versatile artist who is highly drawn about three dimensional forms has been initially experimenting with materials such as gypsum and cement to create sculptures.
Later she moved on to recycled paper, cardboards and bottles.
“I was not fully convinced with the results until I tried my hand on clay. I must say it was love at first touch. Clay is a material that speaks to me. I am able to express my ideas, emotions and thoughts through it,” read the artist’s statement
Situated at the Gullele Botanic Gardens, the festival features a wide range of activities for first-time campers, festival goers or seasoned outdoor enthusiasts.
According to the Haileab Meressa, the organizer, Paugmé Shir-shir, provides a perfect opportunity to get out in fresh air, away from the grasps of technology and escape the hustle bustle of daily life, all in the great outdoors.
This monthly Paugmé Shir-shir event usually involves two days spent venturing off into the surrounding hillsides for various outdoor adventures and one night spent camping under the stars.
March 2018 was a big year for circus in Ethiopia as the second edition of the African Circus Arts Festival came to town.
Thousands gathered to attend the spectacle.
11 circus troupes from across the continent joined the festival to showcase their works.
Inside the largest circus tent to ever be erected in the country, the lights dimmed to welcome the South African troupe Zip Zap.
As the trapeze artist swung from a hanging horizontal bar, the crowd gasped, held their breath as she flew up into the air and collectively exhaled once she landed safely on the ground.
Ethiopian Muslims all over the country are celebrating the Al Maulid Al nabawi or Prophet Mohammed’s Birthday with various religious events.
In the capital, Addis Ababa, the Muslim Community celebrated Al Maulid Al Nabawi at the Grand Mosque with prayers and spiritual events commemorating the birth of Prophet Mohammed.
Jimma, Hawassa and Dessie towns have also witnessed colorful celebration of the Eid al-Adha festival with both outdoor and indoor religious events.
Eid al-Adha is the feast of obedience and sacrifice that remembers the willingness of Prophet Ibrahim to sacrifice his son Ibrahim based on a call from God (Allah).
The Ethiopian Orthodox Church Religious leaders and the clergy held prayers and masses at the Holy Trinity Church in the capital Addis Ababa commemorating the Holy Maundy.
Religious fathers and some clergy, while observing the holly day, made supplication to God to save the world from the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Ambassadors of Iran, Saudi Arabia, Luxembourg, Norway, Finland, North Korea, Bangladesh, Russia, Australia, Venezuela, Czech Republic, among others, and a number of diplomats of several countries were in attendance of the event.
Some of the Ambassadors contacted by FBC said that the art exhibition is an exemplary event in promoting image of Ethiopia and enhancing its relationship with several countries in the cultural and people to people relationship.
According to Tourism Ministry, the celebration begins on September 22 to entertain assorted events including visiting Ethiopia’s rich cultural, historical, and natural attractions.
Various sport competitions, exhibitions and symposiums are also scheduled events of the festival.
